THE BRIAN TRACY SUCCESS LIBRARY

BRIAN TRACY
  
TIME MANAGEMENT


Introduction

YOUR ABILITY TO manage your time, as much as any other
practice in your career as an executive, will determine your
success or failure. Time is the one indispensable and irre-
placeable resource of accomplishment. It is your most pre-
cious asset. It cannot be saved, nor can it be recovered once
lost. Everything you have to do requires time, and the better
you use your time, the more you will accomplish, and the
greater will be your rewards.

Time management is essential for maximum health and
personal effectiveness. The degree to which you feel in con-
trol of your time and your life is a major determinant of your
level of inner peace, harmony, and mental well-being. A feel-
ing of being “out of control” of your time is the major source
of stress, anxiety, and depression. The better you can organize

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
2 TIME MANAGEMENT

and control the critical events of your life, the better you will
feel, moment to moment, the more energy you will have, the
better you will sleep, and the more you will get done.

It is possible for you to gain two productive hours each
working day, or even double your output and your produc-
tivity, by using the ideas and methods taught in this book.
These techniques have proven successful for many thou-
sands of executives in every field of endeavor, and they will
prove successful for you, too, as long as you have what I call
the four Ds.

The Four Ds of Effectiveness

The first D is desire. You must have an intense, burning
desire to get your time under control and to achieve maxi-
mum effectiveness.

The second D is decisiveness: You must make a clear deci-
sion that you are going to practice good time management
techniques until they become a habit.

The third D stands for determination: You must be willing
to persist in the face of all temptations to the contrary until
you have become an effective time manager. Your desire will
reinforce your determination.

And finally, the most important key to success in life, the
fourth D, is discipline: You must discipline yourself to make
time management a lifelong practice. Effective discipline is
the willingness to force yourself to pay the price, and to do
what you know you should do, when you should do it,
whether you feel like it or not. This is critical for success.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
INTRODUCTION 3

The payoff for becoming an excellent time manager is
huge. It is the outwardly identifiable quality of a high per-
former vs. a low performer. All winners in life use their time
well. All poor performers in life use their time poorly. One of
the most important rules for success is simply to “form good
habits and make them your masters.” In this book, you will
learn how to form good habits and then let them form you.

What you will learn in this book are the twenty-one most
important solutions to effective time management that
almost all highly productive people have discovered and
incorporated into their lives.

Remember that time management is really life manage-
ment. Good time management and personal productivity
begins by valuing your life, and every minute of that life.

Do What You Can, with What You Have,

Right Where You Are

You should say to yourself, “My life is precious and impor-
tant, and I value every single minute and hour of it. I am
going to use those hours properly so that I accomplish the
most I can, in the time that I have.”

The good news is that time management is a business
skill, and all business skills are learnable. Time management
is like riding a bicycle, typing on a keyboard, or playing a
sport. It is made up of a series of methods, strategies, and
techniques. It is a skill set that you can learn, practice, and
master with determination and repetition.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
ONE

 

The Psychology of
Time Management

HOW YOU THINK and feel about yourself largely determines
the quality of your life, and the emotional core of your per-
sonality is your self-esteem, defined as “how much you like
yourself.”

Your self-esteem is largely determined by the way you
use your life and time in the development of your full poten-
tial. Your self-esteem increases when you are working effi-
ciently, and your self-esteem goes down when you are not.

The flip side of the coin of self-esteem is called “self-effi-
cacy,” defined as the degree to which you feel you are com-
petent, capable, and productive, able to solve your problems,
do your work, and achieve your goals.

The more competent, capable, and productive you feel,
the higher your self-esteem. The higher your self-esteem,

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF TIME MANAGEMENT 5&

the more productive and capable you will be. Each one sup-
ports and reinforces the other.

People who manage their time well feel positive, confi-
dent, and in charge of their lives.

The Law of Control

The psychology of time management is based on a simple
principle called the Law of Control. This law says that you
feel good about yourself to the degree to which you feel you
are in control of your own life. This law also says that you feel
negative about yourself to the degree to which you feel that
you are not in control of your own life or work.

Psychologists refer to the difference between an internal
locus of control, where you feel that you are the master of
your own destiny, and an externallocus of control, where you
feel that you are controlled by circumstances outside yourself.

When you have an external locus of control, you feel that
you are controlled by your boss and your bills, and by the
pressure of your work and responsibilities. You feel that you
have too much to do in too little time, and that you are not
really in charge of your time and your life. Most of what you
are doing, hour after hour, is reacting and responding to
external events.

There is a big difference between action that is self-
determined and goal-directed and reaction, which is an
immediate response to external pressure. It’s the difference
between feeling positive and in control of your life and feel-
ing negative, stressed, and pressured. To perform at your

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
6 TIME MANAGEMENT

best, you must have a strong feeling of control in the impor-
tant areas of your business and personal life.

Your Thoughts and Feelings

In psychological terms, each person has a self-concept, an
internal master program that regulates his behavior in every
important area of life. People with a high self-concept
regarding time management see themselves and think about
themselves as being well organized and productive. They are
very much in charge of their lives and their work.

Your self-concept is made up of all of your ideas, pic-
tures, images, and especially your beliefs about yourself,
especially regarding the way you manage your time. Some
people believe themselves to be extremely well organized
and efficient. Others feel continuously overwhelmed by
demands of other people and circumstances.

Beliefs Become Realities
What are your beliefs about yourself and your ability to
manage your own time? Do you see yourself and think about
yourself as a highly efficient and effective time manager? Do
you believe you are highly productive and in complete con-
trol of your life and your work? Whatever your belief, if you
think of yourself as an excellent time manager, you will nat-
urally do those things that are consistent with that belief.
Because your self-concept causes you to continually
strive for consistency between the person you see yourself
as, on the inside, and the way you perform on the outside, if

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF TIME MANAGEMENT 7

you believe you manage your time well, you will be a good
time manager.

You can take all of the courses on time management,
read all the books, and practice the various systems, but if
you perceive yourself as being a poor time manager, nothing
will help. If you have developed the habit of being late for
meetings and appointments, or you believe that you are a
disorganized person, those habits become your automatic
behavior. If you do not change your beliefs about your per-
sonal levels of effectiveness and efficiency, your ability to
manage your time will not change, either.

Make a Decision

How do you develop new, positive beliefs about yourself
and your level of personal productivity? Fortunately, it is
not difficult. You simply use the four Ds: desire, decisive-
ness, determination, and discipline. Most important, make
a decision to develop a specific time management habit,
like being early for every meeting for the foreseeable future.
Every change in your life comes about when you make a
clear, unequivocal decision to do something differently.
Making the decision to become an excellent time manager
is the first major step.

Program Your Mind

Once you have made the decision to become a highly pro-
ductive person, there are a series of personal programming
techniques that you can practice.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
& TIME MANAGEMENT

The first is to change your inner dialogue. Ninety-five
percent of your emotions, and your eventual actions, are
determined by the way that you talk to yourself most of the
time. Repeat to yourself, “I am well organized and highly
productive.” Whenever you feel overwhelmed with too much
work, take a time-out and say to yourself, “I am well orga-
nized and highly productive.”

Affirm over and over to yourself that “I am an excellent
time manager.” If people ask you about your time usage, tell
them “I am an excellent time manager.”

Whenever you say that “I am well organized,” your sub-
conscious accepts these words as a command and begins to
motivate and drive you toward actually becoming well
organized in your behaviors.

Visualize Yourself as You Want to Be

The second way to transform your behaviors is to visualize
yourself as an excellent time manager. See yourself as orga -
nized, efficient, and in control of your life. Remember, the
person you “see” on the inside is the person you will “be” on
the outside.

If you are already a well-organized and highly productive
person, how would you behave differently? What would be
different from the way you behave today? Create a picture of
yourself as calm, confident, highly efficient, more relaxed,
and able to complete large amounts of work in a short
period of time.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
THE PSYCHOLOGY OF TIME MANAGEMENT 9

Imagine what a highly productive person would look
like. Would the person’s desk be clear and tidy? Would the
person appear unhurried and unstressed? Create a clear
mental picture of yourself as a person who is in control of his
time and life.

Act “As If”

The third way to program yourself is to act “as if” you were
already a good time manager. Think of yourself as being well
organized in everything you do. If you were already excellent
in time management, how would you behave? What would
you be doing differently? With regard to your time and per-
sonal productivity, what would be different from the way
you do things now?

Interestingly enough, even if you do not think that you
are a good time manager today, but nonetheless you pretend
that you already are, these actions will generate a feeling of
personal efficiency. You can actually change your actions,
habits, and behavior when you “fake it until you make it.”

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
TWO

 

Determine Your Values

SINCE TIME MANAGEMENT is really life management,
improving your personal productivity begins with an exam-
ination of your values. One of Murphy’s Laws says that
before you do anything, you have to do something else first.
It’s not possible to manage your time properly unless you
know exactly what your values are.

Good time management requires that you bring your
control over a sequence of events into harmony with what is
most important to you. Ifit is not important to you, then you
will never feel motivated and determined to get control of
your time.

Ask yourself this: “Why am I doing what I am doing?”
Why do you get up in the morning? Why do you do the job
you do? What is your reason for working where you work?

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
DETERMINE YOUR VALUES 11

Meaning and Purpose

Each person has a deep need for meaning and purpose in
life. One of the major reasons for personal stress and unhap-
piness is the feeling that what you are doing has no meaning
and purpose as it applies to you and your innermost values
and convictions. You must always start off by asking the
question “Why?”

You can become more efficient with time management
techniques, but it won't do you any good if you just become
more efficient at doing something that is meaningless to
you. Greater efficiency will simply increase your sense of
alienation, frustration, and anxiety.

What Do You Value Most?
The next question you need to ask is, “What do you value
most in life?” What do you really care about and stand for?
What will you not stand for?

You will only feel really happy, valuable, and worthwhile
to the degree to which your day-to-day activities are in har-
mony with your values. Almost all stress, tension, anxiety,
and frustration, both in life and in work, comes from doing
one thing while you believe and value something com-
pletely different.

There are many reports about executives experiencing
burnout as the result of the stress of their work. But people
who love what they are doing, and put their whole heart into
their work because it is a reflection of their values, seldom
experience stress or burnout of any kind. When you are

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
12 TIME MANAGEMENT

living consistent with your values, you seem to experience a
continuous flow of energy, enthusiasm, and creativity. Stress
comes from working at things that are not consistent with
your highest values.

Examine your values, your innermost beliefs and convic-
tions, and ask yourself what changes you could make to
bring your activities, on the outside, and your life priorities,
on the inside, more into alignment with each other.

You Are Extraordinary

Realize and accept that you are a unique and wonderful per-
son. Your values have grown and evolved over the course of
your entire lifetime. They have emerged as the result of
countless influences and experiences. They are part of your
psychological and emotional DNA. They are part of your
character and personality. They seldom change over time.
Your job is to determine what your innermost values really
are, and then to organize your life so that you are living and
working consistent with those values.

Analyze Yourself

Here are four sentence completion exercises that you can
use to gain better insight into the person you really are
inside. Complete each sentence:

1. “Tam...” Ifa stranger were to ask you, “Who are you,
really?” what would be your answer? What are the first words
that you would use to describe yourself? Would you describe

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
DETERMINE YOUR VALUES 13

yourself in terms of your work, your qualities as a person,
your hopes, dreams, and aspirations? Select three to five
words to complete the sentence, “I am...”

If you were to interview the people around you, the peo-
ple you live with and work with, and ask them the same
question about yourself, what would they say? How would
other people describe you in terms of your values and the
person you really are? Based on the way you behave and
treat other people, what conclusions would they come to
about the person you are inside?

2. “People are...” Think of people in general, in the world
around you. How would you describe the human race? Are
people good, warm, and loving? Are people lazy, devious, or
untrustworthy?

Your answer will have a major influence on how you treat
other people in every part of your life. It will determine just
about everything you will accomplish as an executive and as
a person with family and friends.

3. “Life is...” Your response here may seem simple, but it
speaks to your entire philosophy of life. Positive, healthy,
happy people see life as a wonderful experience, full of ups
and downs, but certainly a great adventure overall.

One of my favorite stories is about a young man who
goes to an old philosopher and says, “Life is hard.”

The philosopher replies, “As compared with what?”

As Helen Keller said, “Life is either a daring adventure or
nothing at all.” What is life to you?

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
14 TIME MANAGEMENT

a. “My biggest goal in life is...” If you could wave a magic
wand and accomplish a single big goal in life, what one goal,
either short or long term, would have the greatest positive
impact on your life? Now, complete these sentences:

“My biggest goal in my career is...”

“My biggest goal for my family is...”

These are some of the most profound and important
questions you can ever ask and answer for yourself. When
you become clear about your answers—which will not be
easy—you can then ask yourself what changes you would
need to make to bring your time usage and your life priorities
more into alignment with each other.

Napoleon Hill observed that life only begins to become
great when we decide clearly upon our most important goal
in life.

What are your most important goals?

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
THREE

 

Think About Your
Vision and Mission

ONE OF THE BEST and most profound books written in the
last few years is Daniel Kahneman’s Thinking, Fast and Slow.
His insight is that we need to use two different types of
thinking to deal with the variety of situations we face in our
daily lives.

Fast thinking is the type of thinking that we use to deal
with short-term tasks, responsibilities, activities, problems,
and situations. We act quickly and instinctively. In most
cases, fast thinking is entirely appropriate for our day-to-
day activities.

The second type of thinking that Kahneman describes is
slow thinking. That’s when you step back and take more
time to carefully think through the details of the situation
before deciding what you are going to do. Kahneman’s

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
16 TIME MANAGEMENT

insight is that the failure to engage in slow thinking when it
is required and necessary is the cause of many of the mis-
takes that we make in life.

To become excellent in time management, and to get
your entire life under control, you need to engage in “slow
thinking” on a regular basis. Start with the question, “What
am I trying to do?”

Think Before Acting

Very often you can find yourself working extremely hard at
your work, but you have not taken the time to stand back
and think about what it is you really want to accomplish.

There is the story of the husband and wife who leave on
a car trip from San Diego to Los Angeles. He is unfamiliar
with the road but driving at full speed in any case. At a cer-
tain point, the wife says, “Honey, is Phoenix on the way to
Los Angeles?”

He then says, “Why do you ask?” She answers, “Well, we
just passed a sign that said we are on the road to Phoenix.”

He replies, “Never mind. We're making great time!”

Before you step on the accelerator of your own life, you
must develop absolute clarity about what you are really try-
ing to accomplish.

In The Devil’s Dictionary, Ambrose Bierce wrote that “the
definition of fanaticism is redoubling your efforts after your
aim has been forgotten.”

Is your goal to create a great life? Are you trying to builda
great career or accomplish a great piece of work? Your ability

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
THINK ABOUT YOUR VISION AND MISSION 17

to stand back and engage in self-analysis and introspec-
tion—slow thinking—is essential for you to organize your
time in such a way that you are the most productive, and
that you are achieving the greatest amount of joy, satisfac-
tion, and happiness from what you do.

Keep the End in Mind

Be clear about what outcomes you desire. As Stephen Covey
said, “Start with the end in mind.” What is the final result,
outcome, or accomplishment that you are striving to
achieve? Where do you want to end up at the end of the day?
As you scramble up the ladder of success, be sure that it is
leaning against the right building.

Are you working so that you can earn enough money to
be secure and to feel happy? Are you working because you
love your work, or because you feel you're on a mission to
accomplish something that is very important?

What would your world look like if you accomplished
your biggest goal? What is your vision for yourself and your
career over the long term? What is your mission? What dif-
ference do you want to make in the lives of other people?

If all you are working for is to earn enough money to pay
your bills, it’s going to be hard for you to build up and main-
tain a high level of commitment and enthusiasm. To be truly
happy and fulfilled, you must be working toward accom-
plishing something that is bigger than yourself, and that
makes a difference in the life or work of others.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
18 TIME MANAGEMENT

Examine Your Methodology

When you are clear about what you are trying to do, you
must then ask, “How am I trying to do it?” Each time you ask
and answer these two questions, you will gain valuable
insights that will allow you to look at your situation and
know whether you are on the right track.

Once you are clear about what you are trying to do and
how you are trying to do it, you must then ask a third ques-
tion: “How is it going?”

Is what you are doing moving you toward what you want
in the fastest and most efficient way? Are you happy with your
rate of progress? Are things going well, or are you experiencing
too many roadblocks and obstacles on your journey?

Most ofall, question your assumptions. As Peter Drucker
said, “Errant assumptions lie at the root of every failure.”

What are your assumptions about your work and your
life? What are your conscious assumptions? What are your
unconscious and often unquestioned assumptions? It is
amazing how many hardworking people are laboring on the
basis of false assumptions that they have never questioned.

Seek a Better Way
As you ponder the “How’s it going?” question, you should
also be considering another important question: “Could
there be a better way?”

The fact is that there is almost always a different and bet-
ter way to achieve a business goal. This other way may be
faster, cheaper, easier, and more effective.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
THINK ABOUT YOUR VISION AND MISSION 19

There is a beautiful line that says, “There is more to life
than just increasing its speed.”

Many people are working very hard but going in the
wrong direction on the wrong path. They are not clear about
what they are trying to do and where they want to end up,
but they don’t want to face or deal with the possibility that
they could be wrong. The process of asking tough questions
requires slow thinking, but it can significantly increase the
speed at which you achieve your business goals and your
vision and mission.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

FOUR

Project Forward,
Look Backward

WHAT IS THE MOST important and valuable work that you
do, in any field or profession? It’s thinking! Your ability to
think clearly about what you do and how you do it will have
a greater impact on your future results than any other single
action you take.

There are some areas of your work where “slow thinking”
is absolutely essential for you to perform at your best.

Take thirty minutes or more each day to review your
goals, your plans, and your progress. The best time to do this
review is first thing in the morning. Take time to think, plan,
dream, and create. All exceptional executives and highly
effective men and women set aside this time each day to
carefully consider what they are going to do before they

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
PROJECT FORWARD, LOOK BACKWARD 21

begin. You should read, review, reflect, and think about what
you are doing before you take action.

Over the years, I have read hundreds of biographies and
autobiographies of successful men and women in every field.
One common thread in these biographies that I discovered
was that true greatness only emerges with introspection,
retrospection, solitude, and contemplation. You will only
achieve the greatness you are capable of when you begin to
take time regularly to think about who you are, what you
want, and the very best way to achieve it.

Take the time to evaluate your life and your activities in a
larger context. Think of where you are today and where you
want to be in five years. Look at the activities that you are
engaged in today and determine which of them can have the
greatest impact on your future. This way of thinking will
allow you to manage your time much better than you can
even imagine at this moment. Sometimes, just one good
idea gained in a period of solitude or contemplation can
save you months and even years of hard work.

Long Time Perspective

Dr. Edward Banfield of Harvard University conducted more
than fifty years of research into the attitudes and behaviors
of high-performing people, both in America and worldwide.
He identified one special quality that seemed to separate the
high performers from the low performers. He called it “long
time perspective.” Banfield found that high performers took
the time to think far into the future, often ten and twenty

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
22 TIME MANAGEMENT

years, and to develop absolute clarity about where they
wanted to be in their lives and work at that time. They then
come back to the present and make sure that everything
they are doing in the moment is consistent with where they
want to be in the future.

This is a powerful technique that you can use, too.
Project forward one, two, or three years, and imagine that
your life situation is ideal in every way. Create a clear mental
picture of what your work situation would be if it were per-
fect. From this vantage point of the future, look around you
and describe your ideal life and work situation. Then, ask
yourself if what you are doing right now is consistent with
the creation of your ideal future.

From that future vantage point, look back at yourself, to
where you are today, and see the steps that you will need to
take to get to where you want to go. This “back from the
future thinking” is a practice of many top executives.

Make Better Decisions in the Present
For example, a young woman decides that she wants to be
very successful in business in her adult life. With this clear
long-term perspective in mind, the individual works many
extra hours to get excellent grades in high school so that she
will qualify for a good college. In college, the individual takes
harder courses and studies much longer than her peers to
graduate as close as possible to the top of her class.

As a result of many years of hard work and study, and
putting off the immediate gratification of parties, sports,

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
PROJECT FORWARD, LOOK BACKWARD 23

and social life, the individual graduates at a high level from
a prestigious university and is then hired by a large company,
where she has the opportunity to get paid more and pro-
moted faster than classmates who were not really thinking
about the future at all.

When you are clear about where you want to be some-
time in the future, it is much easier for you to make better
decisions in the present. The rule is that long-term vision
improves short-term decision making. You have heard the
saying, “If you don't know where you're going, any road will
get you there.”

The habit of developing long time perspective is quite
powerful. By projecting into the future and looking back to
the present, you will often see steps that you could take,
and mistakes that you could avoid. This exercise will help
you to crystallize your values. It will give you the internal
tools to organize your time and activities so that what you
are doing today is moving you toward the creation of your
ideal future.

Ready for Time Management Techniques

If you are not headed toward your desired destination, you
don't want to get there any faster. If you are not moving in
your own self-determined direction, there is no point in
managing your time in a way that accelerates your speed of
accomplishment. Time management strategies and tactics
applied without a clear future vision will get you to a desti-
nation that holds no interest for you, only faster.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
24 TIME MANAGEMENT

Once you are clear about your values, vision, and mission
for your life and work, and you are clear about what it is you
want to accomplish and the best way to achieve it, then, and
only then, can you begin to apply some of the powerful time
management techniques that are available to you.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FIVE

 

Make Written Plans

ALL SUCCESSFUL TIME managers are good planners.
They make lists and sublists to accomplish each major and
minor objective. Whenever a new project crosses their
desk, they take the time to think through exactly what they
want to accomplish, and then write out an orderly list, in
sequence, of every step necessary for the completion of the
project.

There is a rule that every minute spent in planning
saves ten minutes in execution. The time you take to think
on paper about something you need to accomplish, before
you begin work, will give you a return on personal energy
of 1,000 percent—ten minutes saved for every minute that
you invest in planning your work in the first place.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
26 TIME MANAGEMENT

Once you are clear about your goal, you then make a list
of everything that you can think of that you will have to do
to achieve that goal. Keep adding new items to the list as you
think of them, until your list is complete. Organize your list
two ways: by sequence and by priority.

First, in organizing by sequence, you create a list of activ-
ities in chronological order, from the first step to the final
step before completion of the goal or project. As Henry Ford
said, “The biggest goal can be achieved if you simply break it
down into enough small parts.”

Second, you set priorities on these items, accepting that
20 percent of the items on your list will account for 80 per-
cent of the value and importance of all the things you do.
Setting priorities allows you to stay focused on your key
tasks and activities without getting distracted. As Goethe
said, “The things that matter most must never be at the
mercy of the things that matter least.”

Review your plans regularly, especially when you experi-
ence frustration or resistance of any kind. Be prepared to
revise your plans when you receive new information or feed-
back. Remember that almost every plan has flaws in it, both
large and small. Continually seek them out. When you
review your plans daily, you will get new ideas, perspectives,
and insights about how to complete the task faster and
better than you may have thought initially.

Action without planning is the cause of every failure.
Resist the temptation to take action before you have planned
it out thoroughly in advance.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
MAKE WRITTEN PLANS 27

Planning for Goal Achievement
Perhaps the most important word related to success of any
kind is clarity. Successful people are very clear about who
they are and what they want, in every area of their lives. In
addition to written goals, successful people have written
plans of action that they follow every day.

Once you have set a larger goal for yourself and your
business, there are four questions that you should ask:

1. What are the difficulties and obstacles that stand
between you and the achievement of your goal? Why aren't
you at your goal already? What is holding you back? What
stands in your way? What problems do you have to solve,
what difficulties do you have to overcome, to achieve your
goal in the end?

Of all the problems you need to solve, what are the 20
percent of the problems that account for 80 percent of the
obstacles between you and your goal?

2. What additional knowledge, skills, or information are
required to achieve your goal or complete your project?
Remember the saying, “Whatever got you to where you are
today is not enough to get you any further.”

Where can you acquire the additional knowledge and
skills that you need to achieve your goal? Can you buy or hire
the knowledge or information? Do you need to develop new
skills in yourself in order to achieve your full potential in
your work? What information is essential to you in making
the right decisions in the process of achieving your goal?

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
28 TIME MANAGEMENT

As Josh Billings wrote, “It's not what a man knows that
hurts him; it’s what he knows that isn’t true.”

3. Who are the people, groups, or organizations whose
help and cooperation you need in order to achieve your goal?
Sometimes, a single person can give you ideas and insights
or open doors for you, helping you to achieve vastly more
than you ever thought possible. It’s the same reason many
businesspeople enter into joint ventures and strategic
alliances with their competitors in order to offer products
and services to each other’s customers that each of them
does not currently offer.

4. Of all the people who can help you to achieve your goal,
who is the most important person of all? What could you
offer in exchange to gain this person’s help and cooperation
so that you achieve your important goals even faster?

The most important projects in business, and in the
world around us, are completed by people who make
detailed plans of action before they begin. Make written
plans for yourself and your business, and then follow those
plans carefully until they are successful.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
SIX

 

Chart Your Projects

MOST wWoRK IN business is a series of projects. Your ability
to complete projects largely determines your success in your
career. A project is defined as a “multitask job.” A project is a
result that requires the completion of a series of many
smaller jobs.

Perhaps the most powerful tool you can use to maximize
your effectiveness and dramatically increase your level of
accomplishment is a checklist. A checklist consists of a writ-
ten series of steps, in chronological order, which you create
in advance of beginning work in the first place.

Your ability to clearly define and determine the steps that
you will have to take from where you are today to a success-
fully completed project is a mark of superior thinking. The
rule, once again, is that every minute spent in planning and

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
30 TIME MANAGEMENT

creating checklists will save you ten minutes in execution
and getting the job done. This is another example of slow
thinking that can significantly increase your effectiveness
and your output, and your ultimate value to your business.

Create a PERT Chart
Create a visual representation of your larger tasks and proj-
ects so that you and others can see it in its totality.

Begin by determining the goals and objectives you must
achieve to enjoy the outcomes you desire. Start with the end
in mind. Take the time to develop absolute clarity about
what your goals would look like if they were accomplished
in an excellent fashion. Then, work back from the future to
the present. Make a list of the logical steps, in order, that
you need to take to get from where you are to where you
want to be.

The use of a PERT chart (which stands for Program
Evaluation Review Technique) sets out graphically all the
steps you need to take and when each one needs to be fin-
ished for you to achieve the final goal. This technique is used
by the most efficient and effective companies and executives
worldwide. A PERT chart enables you to see a variety of ways
to achieve the task with greater efficiency.

There are many forms and styles available online for you
to choose from. One example is depicted in Figure 1.

To create the chart, for each of your objectives or goals,
draw a line plotted backward from the required date of com-
pletion. Lay it out on paper so that you can see when you

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CHART YOUR PROJECTS 31

programming test code test system

  
     
   
     

create
schedule

   

write man. training

buy
hardware
installation

conversion

Fig. 1. Sample PERT Chart
= Numbered rectangles are nades and represent events or milestones.
= Directional arrows represent dependent tasks that must be completed sequentially.
= Diverging arrow directions (e.g,, 1-2 and 1-3) indicate possibly concurrent tasks.
= Dotted lines indicate dependent tasks that do not require resources.

 

 

have to accomplish each part of the task in order to have the
entire job completed on schedule.

By thinking on paper and using a PERT chart, you take
complete control of the sequence of events. You have a track
to run on. You have a series of tasks that you can check on to
be sure that they are completed on schedule and to a satis-
factory level of quality. By using a PERT chart, you avoid
being overwhelmed by deadlines. You are always on top of
your work and your major projects.

If you need something done by the end of the month, you
can set your time line with plenty of cushion at the fifteenth

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
32 TIME MANAGEMENT

or twentieth of the month, just in case unexpected delays or
problems arise. Always remember Murphy’s Law: “Whatever
can go wrong will go wrong.”

The superior executive assumes that there will be prob-
lems, obstacles, unexpected delays, and failures to complete
the job by the agreed-on schedule. These occurrences are a
normal and natural part of business life. Your job is to keep
your finger on the pulse of the project continually, and then
to solve the problems and remove the obstacles that are
bound to arise. Once you begin using a PERT chart, however,
you may be quite amazed at how much more you accom-
plish and how many fewer hiccups or conflicts there will be
between the steps.

Set Clear Goals for Everyone

You will accomplish more with clear, written goals for each
key person involved in the project than you ever could with
great conversations and good intentions. Make goals clear,
specific, measurable, and time bounded. Remember that
what gets measured gets done. A goal without a deadline is
not really a goal. It is merely a discussion.

For every goal or subgoal in the completion of a job or
project, you must assign responsibility to a specific person.
Who is going to perform this task? When does the task need
to be completed, and to what standard of quality? Always
ask these questions. Never assume that people know what
you want unless you have made it perfectly clear.

General Motors went from massive losses and bank-
ruptcy in 2009 to a $4.9 billion profit in 2012. Dan Akerson,

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CHART YOUR PROJECTS 33

the president of GM, said that the most important part of
the company’s turnaround was the setting of clear goals for
each key person and at each level of the organization.
Before taking the position, he found that goals throughout
the organization were vague, unclear, unenforced, and
rarely achieved. After establishing clear, specific goals, all
employees knew exactly what they had to do to keep their
job and to move ahead.

Remember, the most wonderful talent you have is your
ability to think, especially to think things through in advance.
The more time you take to think and plan, on paper, the bet-
ter results you will get, and the faster you will get those
results.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
SEVEN

 

Create Your Daily
“To-Do” List

PERHAPS THE MOST powerful time management tool is a
daily list of activities that you create to serve as a blueprint
for your day.

All successful time managers think on paper and work
from a daily list of activities. Just as a pilot uses a checklist
before every takeoff, effective executives take a few minutes
to create a “to-do” list before they begin each day.

The best time to make a list is the night before, so your
subconscious mind can work on your list while you sleep.
When you wake up in the morning, you will often have ideas
and insights to help you achieve some of the most important
goals on your list.

At the end of each day, the last thing you do should be to
plan out the next day. In a study of more than fifty highly

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CREATE YOUR DAILY “TO-DO” LIST 35

effective corporate executives, forty-nine of the fifty said
that the best time management system they had ever found
was a simple pad of paper on which they wrote down every-
thing they had to do before they began.

Sleep Better

Many people toss and turn at night trying not to forget
something they have to do the following day. If you create a
list before you go to bed, writing down everything you have
planned for the coming workday, you will sleep far better
and awake more refreshed.

According to time management specialists, it takes about
twelve minutes each day to write out a list of your tasks for
that day. But this list will save you ten times that amount of
time in improved productivity. Twelve minutes spent in
preparing a daily list will give you a payback of 120 minutes,
or two hours of increased productivity, when you actually
begin work. That’s an incredible payoff for such a simple task.

The ABCDE Method

Once you have made up a list of everything that you plan to
do the next day, organize your list by applying the ABCDE
method to your activities.

The most important word in time management is conse-
quences. A task is important depending on the potential
consequences of doing it or not doing it. When you set pri-
orities, you apply this principle to every task, and you always
begin with the task that has the greatest consequences. This
is where the ABCDE method is especially helpful.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
36 TIME MANAGEMENT

Begin by making a list of everything you have to do the
following day. Then, write an A, B, C, D, or E next to each
item on your list before you begin work.

An item that’s marked A is something you must do. It is
something that is important and there are serious conse-
quences for either doing it or not doing it. Put an A next to
those tasks and activities that you must accomplish in the
course of the day if you are to fulfill your responsibilities.

B items are those things you should do. There are mild
consequences for doing (or not doing) B tasks, but they are
not as important as A activities. The rule is that you never do
a B activity when there is an A activity left undone.

C activities are nice to do, but they have no consequences,
either positive or negative. Chatting with a coworker, getting
an extra cup of coffee, or checking your e-mail are things that
are nice to do, and often fun and enjoyable, but whether or
not you do them has no consequences at all in terms of your
effectiveness at your job.

Time Wastage Sabotages Careers

Robert Half International estimates that as much as 50 per-
cent of working time is spent on C activities, things that
make no contribution at all to the business.

Each person isa creature of habit. Effective people estab-
lish good habits and make them their masters. Ineffective
people accidentally establish bad habits, and then those bad
habits govern their lives.

Many people get into the habit of coming in to work and
immediately engaging in time-wasting, low-value, no-value

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CREATE YOUR DAILY “TO-DO” LIST 37

activities. As soon as they arrive, they find someone to chat
with, read the newspaper, check their e-mail, get a cup of
coffee, and generally begin coasting easily through the day.

But whatever you do repeatedly soon becomes a habit. It
is unfortunate that the great majority of people at work
today have established the habit of wasting most of their
time on activities that contribute nothing to their businesses
or to their careers. Don't let this happen to you.

Delegate Everything Possible

Getting back to the ABCDE method, a D activity is something
that you can delegate to someone else. The rule is that you
should delegate everything that you possibly can to other
people to free up more time for you to engage in your A
activities. Your A activities, and their successful completion,
largely determine the entire course of your career.

An E activity is something that you should eliminate alto-
gether. After all, you can only get your time under control if you
stop doing things that are no longer necessary for you to do.

It is normal and natural for people to slip into a comfort
zone in the course of their work and career. They become
comfortable doing certain activities in a certain way. Even
after they have been promoted to higher-level responsibili-
ties, they continually slip back into doing things that are no
longer really necessary, or that other people could do equally
as well, or better.

Ask yourself, “What would happen if I did not engage in
this activity at all?” If it would make little or no difference to
your business or career, it is a prime candidate for elimination.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
38 TIME MANAGEMENT

Plan Your Work and Work Your Plan

Never do anything that is not on your list. If a new task or
project comes up, write it down on your list and set a priority
for it before you start work on it. Ifyou don't write down new
ideas and activities, and instead react and respond to the
nonstop demands on your time, you will quickly lose control
of your day and end up spending most of your time on activ-
ities of low or no value.

Any time management system is better than no time
Management system at all. There are many smartphone
apps to help you manage your time. There are time manage-
ment systems that you can install on your computer. You
can use a written time management system that you carry
with you and update regularly.

Just remember that in the world of work, the only thing
you have to sell is your time. Be sure that you are focusing
your time on the most valuable and important things that
you can do to make the most important contribution to
your business.

The Not-To-Do List
Just as you need a to-do list to guide you through a busy day,
you need a not-to-do list to help keep you on track. These are
things that you decide, in advance, that you are not going to
do, no matter how tempting they may be when they come up.
As Nancy Reagan once said, “Just say no!” Just say no to
any activity that does not represent the highest value of
your time.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CREATE YOUR DAILY “TO-DO” LIST 39

“No” is the greatest time-saving word in the world of
time management. And once you start using this word, it
gets easier and easier to say.

Remember, people are the greatest time wasters of all.
When people ask you if you would do something or help
them out in some way, ask yourself, “Would this be the most
valuable use of my time, right now?”

If the answer is “no,” you can graciously reply, “Well,
thank you for asking. Let me think about it and look at my
schedule. I'll get back to you and let you know whether or
not I can help you out.”

You can wait twenty-four hours, then contact the person
and say that, unfortunately, you are swamped with work
and deadlines at this point, and you won't be able to help
out. Thank the person for asking for your assistance, and
suggest that “maybe next time” you will have an opening on
your calendar.

Remember, you can only get your time under control ifyou
stop doing things of low value. As they say, your dance card is
already full. You already have vastly more work than you can
ever get done. You will never get caught up on your current
tasks and responsibilities, let alone the additional tasks and
responsibilities that flow to you every single day. Instead, just
say no. Say it early and say it often. In no time at all, you will
have your time completely under your own control.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
EIGHT

 

Set Clear Priorities

| HAVE STUDIED time management for more than thirty
years, reading hundreds of books and articles on the subject,
listening to countless audio programs, and attending semi-
nars. Using the ideas that I have assembled, I have written
books of my own on time management that are worldwide
bestsellers, produced audio and video learning programs,
and conducted seminars and workshops on time manage-
ment all over the world.

What I discovered was simple: All of time management
boils down to helping you determine the most important
task that you can do at the moment, and then giving you the
tools and techniques to begin immediately with that one
task, so you can keep working on it until it is complete.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
SET CLEAR PRIORITIES 41

I explained the ABCDE method in the last chapter. It is
one of the most powerful priority-setting methods ever dis-
covered. There are a series of additional techniques that you
can also use to set priorities.

The Pareto Principle

In 1895, Italian economist Vilfredo Pareto concluded that
the 80/20 rule seemed to apply to money, property, and the
accumulation of fortunes in every society. After years of
research, he discovered that 20 percent of individuals and
families—those he called the “vital few’”—controlled 80 per-
cent of the wealth and property throughout Europe.

The 80/20 rule seems to apply to almost all areas of
human endeavor, especially tasks and responsibilities. That
is, 20 percent of the work that you do will account for 80 per-
cent of the value of all the work that you do. Peter Drucker
says that often it is the “90/10 rule.” Sometimes 10 percent of
the work that you do will account for 90 percent of the value.

When you start off each day with a list of your tasks and
responsibilities, before beginning work, quickly review your
list and select the top 20 percent of tasks that can make the
greatest contribution to achieving your most important
goals and objectives. If you have a list of ten items to accom-
plish on a particular day, two of those items will be worth
more than all the others put together.

Your ability to clearly identify those two items and act on
them first will largely determine your success in your career.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
42 TIME MANAGEMENT

Put on the Pressure

Here’s another technique that you can use for setting priori-
ties: Make up your daily list of activities and then ask your-
self, “If I were called out of town for a month, starting
tomorrow, what activities on this list would I want to be sure
to complete before I left town?”

The greatest enemy of time management and personal
productivity today is “majoring in minors.” Because of the
natural tendency for each person to follow the path of least
resistance and to settle into a comfort zone, it is normal
and natural for people to begin with small, easy, fun, enjoy-
able, and usually unimportant tasks and activities at the
beginning of the day.

But alas, whatever you start doing at the beginning of
the day quickly becomes the pattern that you will follow in
the hours ahead. By the end of the day, you may find that
you have spent all of your time on small and meaningless
tasks, and you will have accomplished nothing of real value.

Get More Important Things Done
Another technique you can use is to imagine that you come
into work on Monday morning and your boss approaches
you with a dilemma. He has just won a fully paid vacation
for two people, with first-class airfare, to a beautiful resort.
His problem is that he is too busy to take advantage of this
prize, but it is time dated. It must be used starting first thing
tomorrow morning.

Your boss makes you a deal. If you can get all of your
most important work done by the end of Monday, he will

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
SET CLEAR PRIORITIES 43

give you and your spouse this wonderful, all-expenses-
paid vacation.

If you had this kind of incentive or motivation, what
would you do? You would probably be astonished at how
much work you could get done in that single day. You would
probably complete the top 20 percent of the tasks that you
had planned for the entire week.

With that kind of an incentive, you would not waste a
single minute. You would have no time at all for idle conver-
sation with your coworkers. You would start early and im-
mediately work through coffee breaks and lunch and
concentrate single-mindedly on clearing your desk by com-
pleting your most important tasks. You would become one
of the most productive people in your organization, virtu-
ally overnight.

This is a great exercise for you to practice on yourself.
This exercise just illustrates the fact that your efficiency
and effectiveness is largely a matter of choice. With a suffi-
cient incentive, you would be astonished at how productive
you could be, virtually in a few minutes. With a sufficient
incentive, and a decision on your part, you would almost
immediately become one of the most valuable people in
your organization.

The Law of Three

This principle is probably worth the cost and time of reading
this book. It is based on an amazing discovery that I have
made over the years, working with many thousands of exec-
utives and business owners. It is that, no matter how many

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
44 TIME MANAGEMENT

different things you do in a week or a month, there are only
three tasks and activities that account for 90 percent of the
value of the contribution you make to your business.

If you make a list of everything you do in the course ofa
month, it will probably include twenty, thirty, or even forty
different tasks and responsibilities. But if you review that list
carefully, item by item, you will find that only three items
on your entire list account for 90 percent of your value to
your business.

How do you determine your “big three’? Simple. Make a
list of all your work tasks and responsibilities, from the first
day of the month to the last day, and throughout the year.
Then, answer these three magic questions.

1. If I could only do one thing on this list, all day long,
which one activity would contribute the greatest value to my
business? Your most important task—the one that accounts
for the greatest contribution you can make to your busi-
ness—will probably pop out at you from the list. It will usu-
ally be quite clear to you, as it is clear to the people around
you. Put a circle around that item.

a. If I could only do two things on this list, all day long,
what would be the second activity that would make the great-
est contribution to my business? Usually, this item will jump
out at you as well. It may require a little bit more thought,
but it is usually clear and obvious.

3. If lcould only do three things on this list, all day long,
what would be the third activity that would contribute the

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
SET CLEAR PRIORITIES 45

most value to my business? When you analyze your answers,
you will clearly see that only three things you do account
for almost all the value that you contribute. Starting and
completing these tasks is more important than everything
else you do.

Here’s an important point: If you do not know the
answers to these three questions, you are in serious trouble.
You are in great danger of wasting your time and your life at
work. If you do not know the answer to these magic ques-
tions, you will always end up working on lower-value and
often no-value activities.

If you are unclear for any reason, go to your boss. Ask
what your boss thinks are the three most important things
that you do to make your most valuable contribution at
work. Ask your coworkers. Ask your spouse. But whatever
you do, you must know the answers to these three questions.

Pass It Along
Once you are clear about your “big three,” you must help all
the people who report to you gain clarity about their “big
three” as well. There is no kinder or more generous thing that
you can do for your staff members than to help them become
absolutely clear about the most important things that they
do to make the most valuable contribution to your business.
In a well-managed department or organization, employ-
ees know exactly what the most important things are that
they could do to make the greatest contribution. At the same
time, every worker should know what every other worker's

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
46 TIME MANAGEMENT

big three are. All day, every day, everyone should work, both
alone and together, to complete one or more of those three
big tasks.

People who are dominated by “fast thinking” naturally
react and respond to the demands and pressures of the
moment. They continually veer off track and away from
working on their highest-priority tasks. But this practice is
not for you.

Before you begin work, take some time to think slowly,
select your most important task, and then start work on that
task to the exclusion of everything else.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
NINE

 

Stay on Track

“WHAT IS THE most valuable use of my time right now?”

Because it is the most important question in all of time
management, ask it over and over again until it becomes an
automatic guide that motivates and drives you to focus on
your highest-value task or activity. When you organize all of
your time and work activities around the answer to this
question, you will be astonished at how much more produc-
tive you become, and how quickly.

Sometimes I ask my audiences, “What is your most valu-
able financial asset?”

After they have thought it over and given me a couple of
answers, I point out that the answer is actually “your
earning ability.” Your ability to earn money represents as

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
48 TIME MANAGEMENT

much as 80 percent to 90 percent of your financial value in
the world of work.

Think of yourself as an “earning machine.” Every task
that you work on contributes a value of some kind, either
high or low. Your job is to focus on the most valuable use of
your time and to discipline yourself to continually work on
those few activities that contribute the greatest value to your
work and to your business.

A Lifestyle Principle

This selection of the most valuable use of your time applies to
every area of your life as well. Sometimes, the most valuable
use of your time, especially if you are working extremely hard,
is to go home and go to bed early and get a good night's sleep.
Sometimes the most valuable use of your time is to spend it
face-to-face with the important people in your life. Sometimes
the most valuable use of your time is to take excellent care of
your physical health, by eating the right foods, taking time to
get exercise regularly, and getting the proper rest and relax-
ation that you need to perform at your best.

Sometimes the most valuable use of your time is just to
spend it with your family or to read a good book rather than
watching television. At other times, the most valuable use
of your time will be to socialize; to get together with family
and friends whose company you enjoy so that you can relax
and de-stress.

What matters most is for you to always be asking yourself
this question: “What is the most valuable use of my time right
now?” And then you discipline yourself to start and complete

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
STAY ON TRACK 49

that activity, whatever it is. When you begin to incorporate
this one suggestion into your time management skills and
your day, you will become one of the most efficient time
managers of your generation.

The Important vs. the Urgent

In terms of your tasks and activities, setting priorities is
largely about separating the “vital few” from the “trivial
many.” There are four different types of tasks that you are
faced with every day. Your ability to sort out these tasks into
their proper categories can significantly increase your pro-
ductivity. Each of these tasks can be put into a different box
or quadrant.

QUADRANT 1: URGENT AND IMPORTANT
An important task is something that has long-term conse-
quences for your career. An urgent task is something that can-
not be delayed or put off. A task that is both urgent and
important is something that is “in your face.” It is largely deter-
mined by external demands on your time, by tasks and respon-
sibilities that you must start and complete in order to keep on
top of your job. There are people you have to see, things that
you have to do, and places that you have to go. There are cus-
tomers to visit, tasks to complete, and activities that others
are expecting you to accomplish. Most people spend most of
their working day on tasks that are both vital and urgent.
Your most important tasks, your highest priorities, are
both urgent and important. This is called the “quadrant
of immediacy.”

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
50 TIME MANAGEMENT

QUADRANT 2: IMPORTANT, BUT NOT URGENT

The second type of tasks are those that are important but
not urgent. They can be delayed or procrastinated upon, at
least for the short term. An example of a task that is vital but
not urgent is an important report that you must have
written, approved, and submitted by the end of the month.
Or think about a college term paper. It is something that is
vital to your grade at the end of the semester, but it is also
something that can be put off for weeks and months, and
often is. (Most term papers are written the night before the
deadline. What was at one time vital but not urgent suddenly
becomes very urgent indeed.)

Throughout your life, you are surrounded by important
but not urgent tasks. Reading important books in your field,
taking additional courses, upgrading your skills and abilities
are all vital to your long-term success, but they are not
urgent. So, you procrastinate doing them. Most people who
fail or underachieve in business have unfortunately put off
upgrading their skills and abilities for so long that they are
simply passed over and surpassed by other, more deter-
mined and aggressive people who want to enjoy greater
rewards and responsibilities.

Even something as simple as physical exercise is vital to
your health, but not urgent. You can put it off for an extended
period of time, and most people do. Doctors say that 85 per-
cent of the major health problems that people have later in life
could have been avoided if they had engaged in proper health
habits, including diet and exercise, for most of their adult
lives. These tasks fall into the “quadrant of effectiveness.”

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
STAY ON TRACK 51

QUADRANT 3: URGENT, BUT NOT IMPORTANT
You probably have people coming into your office, calling or
messaging you, sending you e-mails, but your responses to
them contribute little or no value to your business or your
work. They represent tasks that are urgent but not important.
These tasks fall into what is often called the “quadrant of
delusion.” People think that because they are engaging in
these activities during the working day, they must have some
value, but they are just kidding themselves into career irrele-
vance. Many people spend as much as half of their time
engaging in activities that are urgent but not important. They
are fun, easy, and enjoyable, but they make no contribution
to the work at all. Most of these activities involve idle conver-
sation with coworkers, or low-value/no-value activities.

QUADRANT 4: NOT URGENT AND NOT IMPORTANT

The fourth type of activity that people engage in at work are
those tasks that are neither urgent nor important. These activ-
ities fall into the “quadrant of waste.” Many people engage in
activities that have zero value to either themselves or the
company. Reading e-mail spam or reading the sports pages,
going shopping during the day, or driving around between
appointments listening to the radio—all are examples of
activities that are neither urgent nor important. They are a
complete waste of time. They contribute nothing to your life.

Develop Good Work Habits
The great tragedy is that if you do something repeatedly, you
soon develop a habit. And a habit, once formed, is hard to

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
52 TIME MANAGEMENT

break. Many people have developed the habit of spending
most of their time on low-value/no-value activities and then
are quite astonished when they are laid off from their jobs or
passed over for promotion.

The key to good time management is for you to set prior-
ities and to always be working on what is both urgent and
important—that is, your most pressing and important tasks.
Once you are caught up with your tasks that are urgent and
important, you immediately start work on those tasks that
are important but not urgent at the moment. The tasks that
are important but not urgent are usually those tasks and
activities that can contribute to your career in a meaningful
way in the long term.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

TEN

Determine Your
Key Result Areas

PERHAPS THE MOST important key to high productivity is
for you to focus and concentrate on the most valuable and
important things you can do, all day long.

Developing absolute clarity about your key result areas is
essential for executive effectiveness and high productivity.
Your key result areas are those things that you have been
hired to do, accomplish, or achieve. They are your top prior-
ities in terms of the value that you contribute to your busi-
ness. These are the tasks that, once accomplished, determine
whether or not you fulfill your responsibilities to your com-
pany and to yourself.

What are the key results that you have been hired to
accomplish? Try asking the question another way: “Why are

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
54 TIME MANAGEMENT

you on the payroll?” This is a key organizing question that
you should be asking yourself every minute of every day—
especially when you are overwhelmed by too much to do
and too little time.

A key result area (KRA) can be defined as having three
specific qualities:

1. It is something that you absolutely, positively must
do to fulfill the responsibilities and demands of
your job.

2. It is something for which you are 100 percent
responsible. If you do not do it yourself, there is no
one else who can or will do it for you.

3. It is something that is completely under your con-
trol. You do not need the assistance or participation
of someone else in order to complete this part of
your work.

If you are not sure exactly what your key result areas
might be, go to your boss and ask. Ask your boss, “Why,
exactly, am I on the payroll?”

Surprisingly enough, most bosses won't know how to
answer this question, either. They have never thought
through why you are on the payroll, or even why they them-
selves are on the payroll. When you ask this question and
force your boss to think it through, you will both become
more productive and effective in your work.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
DETERMINE YOUR KEY RESULT AREAS 55

Keep on Track

A second question with regard to key result areas is: “What
can only I do that, if done really well, will make a real differ-
ence to my organization?”

As it happens, there is a specific answer to this question
for virtually every hour of every day.

In your work, there are things that only you can do. If you
don't do them, no one else will do them for you. If you do
them well, it will make an extraordinary difference to your
job and to your company. These are the specific activities
that contribute the greatest value to your work. For you to
perform at the highest level, you must be absolutely clear
about what those activities are that are more valuable than
any others, and which only you can perform to distinction.

Remember, there are always a hundred little things that
you can do that, if done well, will make very little difference
to your success or to your contributions.

Focusing on key result areas is the most direct way to
unleash effectiveness, power, persuasion, enthusiasm, and
energy. You always get a tremendous feeling of self-confi-
dence and personal power from completing something that
is significant and important both to you and your company.

On the other hand, in the age of distraction, you actually
experience feelings of low self-esteem, frustration, stress,
and often depression when you are doing something that, in
your heart of hearts, you know makes very little difference to
achieving your major goals.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
56 TIME MANAGEMENT

Define Your Key Result Areas
There are seldom more than five to seven key result areas
in any job. Each KRA is a specific task that you must do if
you are to complete the overall output responsibilities of
your work.

For example, if you are a salesperson, your key result
areas are:

1. Prospecting (i.e., finding new customers to talk to)

2. Building trust and rapport with prospects so that
they are open to listening to you

®

. Identifying needs accurately

4. Presenting your product persuasively

a

. Answering objections clearly
6. Closing the sale decisively

7. Getting resales and referrals from satisfied customers

Each of these tasks must be done in order for you to fulfill
your responsibilities as a salesperson for your company.

As a manager, you have seven key result areas as well.
They are:

1. Planning (deciding exactly what is to be done)

2. Organizing (bringing together the people, money,
and resources needed to fulfill the plan)

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
DETERMINE YOUR KEY RESULT AREAS 57

3. Recruiting (finding the right people to work with
you to achieve the goals)

4. Delegating (making sure that people know exactly
what they are supposed to do, and at what time,
and to what level of quality)

5. Supervising (making sure that each job is done on
schedule to the required level of quality)

6. Measuring (setting standards and benchmarks,
plus time lines, for the accomplishment of impor-
tant tasks)

7. Reporting (making sure that each person above
you, next to you, and below you knows exactly
what it is that you are doing and achieving)

More than 90 percent of all of your problems in manage-
ment, or in life, are from “dropping the ball” in one of these
key result areas. It is like leaving out an important ingredient
in a kitchen recipe. For some reason, the dish simply does
not taste as good as it could.

Clarity Is Essential

Everyone at every level of the organization should know
what his or her key results are. Be sure that all employees
who report to you are clear about the most valuable contri-
bution that they can make to the organization. One of the
greatest kindnesses that you can give to your employees is to

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
58 TIME MANAGEMENT

help them to be crystal-clear about the most valuable and
important things that they can do, and then to help them
achieve those goals on time.

No matter where you are in your organization chart, you
need to know two things: First, what are your boss’s key
result areas? What is it that your boss has to accomplish that
is more important to the success of the organization than
anything else? If you don't know the answers to these ques-
tions, you cannot help your boss get his or her job done,
which is very important to your own personal success.

Second, you need to know what your own key result
areas are. Furthermore, each person who reports to you
must know the answer to this question about you as well.
Each of your subordinates must also know what their key
result areas are, in order of importance, and when they need
to be accomplished.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
ELEVEN

 

Delegate to Others

ONE OF THE GREATEST time management tools is for you
to get someone else to do the task completely. Your ability to
delegate lower-value tasks to others who can do them at a
lower hourly rate or salary is one of the vital skills of modern
management.

Delegate everything you possibly can to others who can
do the tasks as well as or better than you. Use the “70 percent
rule.” If someone else can do a particular task 70 percent as
well as you, this job is a prime candidate for you to get off
your plate and on to that person's plate.

Multiply Your Value
Delegation enables you to move from what you can do
personally to what you can manage. Delegation is the skill

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
60 TIME MANAGEMENT

that allows you to leverage your talent and skill and multi-
ply it times all the people who can be given smaller parts
of the work.

You always have a choice. You can do it yourself, or you
can have someone else do it. High productivity requires that
you always think in terms of the latter approach: “Who else
can do this job rather than me?”

Delegation Is Learnable

Learn the skills of proper delegation. ( have written an
entire minibook in this series that tells you everything you
need to know to maximize your productivity through other
people.) Choose the right person to handle each task.
Provide time lines, deadlines, standards of performance,
and a review schedule.

You can also delegate problem solving and decision
making if they are among your duties and responsibilities.
You can delegate information gathering and research. You
can delegate every task that anyone else can do as well as (or
almost as well as) you.

With the skill of delegation, which is readily learnable,
there is no limit that you cannot reach in your professional
career. But without the ability to delegate efficiently and
well, you will always end up with too much to do and too lit-
tle time. You will end up doing too many things of low value
or no value. You will never get caught up and on top of your
job. And this can hurt your career.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
DELEGATE TO OTHERS 61

The best news is that all business skills are learnable.
Every idea in this book is something that you can master
with practice and repetition. You can become absolutely
excellent at managing your time and go on to double and
triple your productivity in the months and years ahead.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

TWELVE

Concentrate
Single-Mindedly

CONCENTRATION AND single-handling are essential
requirements for all great achievement. Concentration
means that once you start on your most important task,
you resolve to persevere without diversion or distraction.
Your ability to concentrate single-mindedly on the most
important use of your time is the number-one requirement
for success.

You could meet every other requirement with intelli-
gence, ability, and creativity, but if you cannot concentrate
on one thing at a time, then you cannot be successful. You
need to do first things first, one thing at a time, and second
things not at all. If you do not discipline yourself to concen-
trate single-mindedly, you will invariably find yourself work-
ing on low-priority tasks.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CONCENTRATE SINGLE-MINDEDLY 63

Always allow enough time for your top priorities. Figure
out how much time it is going to take to do the job and then
add 30 percent as a cushion, to take into account unex-
pected interruptions, emergencies, and responsibilities.
With a 30 percent cushion, you will probably be quite close
to correct in your estimate of the time necessary to do the
work. This is one of the secrets to achieving high levels of
productivity in your work.

Earl Nightingale said that “every great accomplishment
in life has been preceded by a long, sustained period of
concentration.”

Practice Single-Handling

Single-handling is one of the most important of all time
management techniques and life management principles.
Once you start a task, you stay with it until it is 100 percent
complete. Single-handling requires that you do not con-
tinue picking up and putting down the same task, over and
over, going off to something else and then coming back.
With single-handling, once you pick up a task and begin on
it, you discipline yourself to bring it to completion before
you go on to the next task.

Apply single-handling to your mail and correspondence.
Deselect unimportant items immediately and then deal
with the important documents only once, either by filing or
responding to them right away.

The principle of single-handling—made famous by time
management expert Alan Lakein—comes from time and

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
64 TIME MANAGEMENT

motion studies comparing the output of people who con-
centrated single-mindedly vs. the output of people who
went back and forth on a task, going away and returning to
that task many times in the course of task completion. What
these studies found was that each time you put down a task
and turn to something else, you lose momentum and
rhythm, and you lose track of where you were in doing that
job. When you come back to the task, you have no choice
but to review your previous work, catch up to the point
where you were when you broke off, and then begin again.
This process turns out to require as much as 500 percent of
the amount of time otherwise necessary to complete a task
if you had started with it and stayed with it until it was 100
percent complete.

In simple terms, single-handling can reduce the time
you spend completing an important task by as much as 80
percent, and dramatically increase the quality of the fin-
ished work.

Avoid Multitasking
There is a good deal of argument today over the concept of
multitasking. Some people feel that they are quite capable of
performing at high levels of productivity while they are
working on several tasks at once. The studies have now
proven that this idea is totally false.

What the experts have discovered is that multitasking is
actually “task-shifting.” The fact is that you can only do one
thing at a time. If you stop doing one task to turn to another

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CONCENTRATE SINGLE-MINDEDLY 65

task, you must shift all of your attention and energy to the
new task. When you turn back to the previous task, you are
simply making a shift of attention, like pointing a light beam
from one target to another. Then, you must bring yourself up
to speed on the old task before you get started again.

Dumb and Dumber

According to USA Today, each time you shift from one task
to another and back again, you burn up a certain amount of
brain energy and intelligence. At the end of a busy day of
multitasking, you can lose as many as ten IQ points. So, you
become progressively dumber throughout the day, ending
the day feeling burned out and often indecisive about the
smallest things, such as what you want to have for dinner or
watch on television that evening.

Multitasking is tempting, but it is an insidious use of
time. It can actually sabotage your career and undermine
your ability to accomplish the most important tasks upon
which all your success depends.

Decide to Concentrate
Resolve today to make it a habit to plan your work carefully,
set priorities, and then begin on your most important task.
Once you have begun on your top task or output, resolve
that you will work single-mindedly, without diversion or dis-
traction, until that task is complete.

One of the techniques used by highly productive execu-
tives is to work at home in the morning or evening, or on the

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
66 TIME MANAGEMENT

weekend, when you can concentrate single-mindedly with-
out interruption of any kind.

Another key to single-minded concentration is to avoid
the “attraction of distraction.” Instead of responding to every
e-mail or ring on your phone, “leave things off!” Close your
door, turn off all your devices, and put everything aside so
that you can work on the one task that can make the greatest
difference to your company and your career at this point.
When you make this a habit, your productivity, performance,
and output will double and triple, almost overnight.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

Z
LU
LU
=
x
-
=

Overcome Procrastination

IT HAS BEEN Sa~iD that “procrastination is the thief of
time.” A wise man in one of my seminars expanded on that
by saying, “Procrastination is the thief of life.”

Your ability to overcome procrastination and to get the
job done on schedule can make all the difference between
success and failure in your career.

However, the fact is that everyone procrastinates.
Everyone has too much to do and too little time. But if every-
one procrastinates, what is the difference between the high
producer and the low producer?

Simple. The high producer procrastinates on tasks and
activities of low or no value. The low producer procrastinates
on tasks that have considerable value to the company and to
the individual’s own career. For you to produce at your max-

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
68 TIME MANAGEMENT

imum, you must resolve to engage in “creative procrastina-
tion’ from this day forward.

Consciously and deliberately decide which tasks you are
going to put off. Look at your list of work for the day and
choose those items that you are not going to do until you
have completed other items that are vastly more important.
You must work consciously and deliberately instead of pro-
crastinating accidentally and automatically.

We always tend to procrastinate on our biggest tasks,
which are usually our highest-value tasks as well. There are
a series of techniques that you can use to overcome or at
least manage procrastination. In fact, there are libraries full
of books, one or two of them written by myself, on the sub-
ject of overcoming procrastination. Here are some good
ideas that you should start with right away.

Mental Programming
“Do it now!”

These are perhaps the most powerful words you can
use to increase your productivity. Whenever you find your-
self procrastinating on an important task, repeat to your-
self, with energy and enthusiasm, “Do it now! Do it now!
Do it now!”

The amazing discovery is that after you have repeated
these words ten, twenty, or even a hundred times, you will
find yourself unconsciously impelled to stay on your most
important task and complete that job before you do any-
thing else.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
OVERCOME PROCRASTINATION 69

Completing Larger Tasks
Henry Ford once wrote, “Any goal can be achieved if you
break it down into enough small parts.”

Any big task that you have to complete can be completed
if you break it down into enough small parts. One of the best
techniques of all is to divide your task into “bite-size pieces.”
Take a piece of paper and write down every small part of the
task that you have to do, in sequence, from the first little job
to the final job that completes the task.

Then, discipline yourself to do “number one” on your
list. Sometimes, the decision to take action on the first step
on a large task makes it easier for you to do the next step,
and the next step, and the next step as well. Sometimes just
forcing yourself to start on a major task will help you to
develop the momentum and energy necessary to work right
through until the task is complete.

The Salami Slice Method
A variation of the “bite-size pieces” technique for overcom-
ing procrastination is called the “salami slice method.” Just
as you would not try to eat a loaf of salami in one bite, you
do not try to do a large task in one time period. Instead, you
salami-slice the task; you reduce the size of the task by slic-
ing off one small part at a time. You then resolve to complete
that one small part before you go on to something else.
Each time you sit down with your major task, especially
if you are overwhelmed with other pressing responsibilities,
resolve to complete one part of the task at a time. Often this

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
7O TIME MANAGEMENT

strategy will get you started on the project and make it easier
to complete parts two, three, four, and so on.

Develop a Sense of Urgency

One of the rarest and most valuable human qualities in the
world of work is a sense of urgency. It is estimated that only
about 2 percent of people move quickly to get the job done.
When you develop a reputation for having an “action orien-
tation’ and for getting the job done quickly, you'll move onto
the fast track in your career.

When 300 chief executive officers were asked what
employees could do to put themselves on the fast track in
their corporations, 85 percent of the top executives had the
same reply. The most important qualities that they looked for
were 1) the ability to set priorities and 2) the ability to start on
the most important job and get it done quickly and well.

When you develop a reputation for starting on your most
important tasks and completing them quickly and well, you
will be happily surprised at all the wonderful opportunities
that will open up for you.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

FOURTEEN

Create Blocks of Time

YOU REQUIRE UNBROKEN blocks of time for maximum
accomplishment. The more important your work is, the
more important it becomes for you to establish blocks of
time to work on serious projects.

You need a minimum of sixty to ninety minutes to
accomplish anything worthwhile. It takes about thirty
minutes just to get your mind into a complex task, like
preparing a proposal, report, or even planning an impor-
tant project. Once you are into the task, you can then con-
centrate single-mindedly, at a high level of awareness and
creativity for the next sixty minutes or more of serious,
focused work.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
72 TIME MANAGEMENT

Don’t Mix Creative and Administrative
You cannot mix creative tasks with functional or administra-
tive tasks. You cannot really do operational tasks and creative
tasks simultaneously. They require fast or slow thinking, but
not both. Office activities require fast, short-term thinking.
Creative tasks require thought, planning, and application.
Think of creative time as your “internal prime time” and
operational time as your “external prime time.” And don't
mix them up. You cannot do big creative jobs requiring focus
and concentration in a typical office environment unless
you put up a Do Nor Disturs sign on that door. Otherwise,
you must be creative in finding ways to get away from your
work environment so that you can complete the tasks that
your career really depends on.

How to Create Chunks of Time

Here are several recommendations for creating blocks of
time, any one of which can dramatically improve your effec-
tiveness and efficiency.

First, work in the morning when you are the freshest
and most alert. Many of the most productive people in
business discipline themselves to go to bed early and then
arise at 5:00 or 6:00 A.M. so that they can work for sixty to
ninety minutes uninterrupted before they go into the office.
Even if you get into the office a bit late, in those ninety min-
utes of uninterrupted work, you will accomplish as much
as the average person does in an office environment in
three hours.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CREATE BLOCKS OF TIME 73

Another time that you can use to your advantage is
lunchtime. This is a great opportunity for you to shut off
your phone, turn off your Internet connection, and remove
other distractions while everyone else is out of the office
having lunch. You'll have sixty straight minutes of peace and
quiet where you can work single-mindedly to clear up some
of your most important tasks.

Do Not Disturb

Another strategy you can use is to close your office door for
certain periods each day during which you work single-
mindedly on your biggest tasks. Many executives will get a
Do Nor Disturs sign from a hotel and hang it on their door
handle at work. Everyone knows that while this sign is on the
door, no one is allowed to interrupt them except in the case
of areal emergency.

My controller, a talented and skilled woman, complained
to me that she was overwhelmed with nonstop interruptions
from different people. As a result, she was unable to get her
detailed accounting work done and send out her financial
statements and reports on schedule. After I recommended
that she put a Do Nor Disturs sign on her door and work
nonstop for one hour in the morning and one hour in the
afternoon without interruptions, it transformed her work
life. She told me afterward that, within a few days, she was
totally caught up. Even more, none of those interruptions
turned out to be so important that they couldn't wait for a
later time.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
74 TIME MANAGEMENT

Gain Extra Hours

Here is yet another great technique that virtually all execu-
tives on the fast track use. It is so simple that it should be ille-
gal. Get up a little earlier and arrive at your office one hour
before everyone else. Use that hour to organize your day and
to get started before there are any possible interruptions.
Then work through lunch and gain one more hour of pro-
ductivity. Finally, stay one hour later, after everyone else has
gone home, and use that time to wrap up your day and com-
plete your most important tasks.

This is an amazing technique! By adjusting your day in
this way, you beat the traffic on your way to work and you
beat the traffic on the way home. In between, you add three
productive hours to each working day. You accomplish two,
three, or even five times as much as the average person who
works regular hours. With this strategy, you can double your
output and transform your career.

Remember, you are a potential genius. One of the areas
where you can demonstrate your creativity is in creating
blocks of time when you can get more done and start
moving ahead faster in your career.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FIFTEEN

 

Control Interruptions

UNEXPECTED AND unscheduled interruptions are among
the biggest time wasters in business and industry. These
interruptions can be in the form of a bell going off on your
computer, a telephone ringing, an SMS message coming in
on your smartphone, or people just walking into your office
because they need to talk.

It turns out that people are the greatest time wasters in
the world of work. As much as 50 percent of time at work is
spent in idle chitchat with coworkers. Many people come
into work in the morning and begin chitchatting with their
coworkers, and then continue for the next two or three
hours. In many environments, people don't really start seri-
ous work until about 11:00 a.m., and then soon it is time to
break for lunch. After lunch, they come back and chitchat

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
76 TIME MANAGEMENT

with their coworkers some more, not getting back into the
job until 1:30 or 2:00 p.m.

Work All the Time You Work

The rule for you is to “work all the time you work.” When you
go into your workplace, begin work immediately. Do not
chat with others, read the newspaper, or surf the Internet.
Since you planned out your day the evening before, you
begin immediately on your most important task, and keep
working, task by task, until you get your most important
jobs done.

Minimize Interruptions

When someone phones you, cut to the chase immediately.
Say something like, “Hello, Bill. It's nice to hear your voice.
What can I do for you?”

Get right to the point. Don’t waste time. Before you call
Bill, quickly write out an agenda of the points you want to
cover in your phone call. When you get Bill on the line, you
say, “I know how busy you are. I have three points that I need
to go over with you and then I will let you get back to work.”

This approach is both polite and professional. Most busy
businesspeople are going to appreciate your getting to the
point quickly and then getting off the phone.

When someone comes into your office to chat, you can
say, “I would love to talk with you right now, but I really have
to get back to work I have to complete this task by this
afternoon.”

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CONTROL INTERRUPTIONS 77

Whenever you say those magic words, “I have to get back
to work,” the other person will pack up and leave.

Stand Up Immediately

To minimize the time cost of unexpected interruptions,
when someone comes into your office, stand up and
approach the other person saying something like, “I was just
on my way out. What can I do for you?”

Then, you walk with the person out of your office and
back into the hallway, talking and listening. When the person
has finished talking, you then let him go back to his work,
and you return to your office and your work.

Another technique is to take outside visitors to a separate
meeting room rather than bringing them into your office.
Then, you politely set a time limit at the beginning of the
discussion by saying something such as, “I have an impor-
tant call coming in from our agent in London at exactly 3:15.
I can't get out of that appointment. I’m sure we can cover
everything we need to cover by that time.”

In his book The Effective Executive, Peter Drucker makes
the point that not only do people waste your time, but you
waste the time of other people. He suggests that you have
the courage to go and ask other people, “What do I do that
wastes your time?” When you invite people to be perfectly
honest with you in answering this question, you will be quite
amazed at the ideas you'll hear to help increase their effi-
ciency and effectiveness, and your own as well.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

SIXTEEN

Batch Your Tasks

BATCHING YouR tasks simply means doing similar things
at the same time. There's a “learning curve” in everything
you do. When you complete a series of similar or identical
tasks all in a row, the learning curve allows you to reduce the
time required to complete each task by as much as 80 per-
cent by the time you complete the fifth identical task.

For example, in writing letters and correspondence or
answering e-mail, you bundle them all together and do
them at the same time.

You batch your telephone calls and return them all in a
row. If you have to interview a number of people, interview
them consecutively, one after another. Do all your similar
tasks at the same time rather than doing a little bit now and
a little bit later.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
BATCH YOUR TASKS 79

Use E-Mail as a Servant

How you deal with your e-mail is going to have a major
impact on your career. There are some people who are slaves
to their e-mail. They have a bell that goes off each time a
new e-mail comes in, and whatever they are doing, they turn
immediately to their inbox to check on the message. In
effect, they “switch tasks” and then return to what it was
they were doing, immediately losing momentum, clarity,
and output in their most important tasks.

Tim Ferris, in his bestselling book The 4-Hour Workweek,
explains how he went from being a slave to his e-mail twelve
to fourteen hours a day to mastering the process completely.

First, he decided to only answer his e-mail twice a day, at
eleven o'clock in the morning and four in the afternoon.
Then he went from twice a day to once a day, to once a week.
Even when answering e-mails once a week, his efficiency,
effectiveness, productivity, and income increased.

Julie Morgenstern, the time management expert, wrote a
book called Never Check E-Mail in the Morning. This title
and the very idea come as a shock to most people.

They Can Wait

Some of the most productive people I know have an auto-
matic response on their e-mail. It reads something like this:
“I only answer my e-mail twice a day because of my busy
schedule. If you have sent me an e-mail, I will get back to
you as soon as I possibly can. If this is an emergency, call this
number and speak to this person.”

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
80 TIME MANAGEMENT

A busy journalist told the story of going to Europe for two
weeks. His e-mail was inaccessible for the entire time. When
he returned, he had more than 700 messages waiting for
him. He knew that it would take him many hours, even sev-
eral days, to go through 700 e-mails. So he took a deep
breath and pressed “delete all.”

His attitude was simple. He said, “I refuse to be the slave
of any person who sends me an e-mail, expecting me to
reply immediately. Besides, if any of these e-mails were
important, whoever sent the e-mail will send it again.”

And he was right; 90 percent of the e-mails that he
deleted were never repeated, and the ones that he deleted
that were important ones were resent within a few days.

Make a decision not to allow your e-mail to control your
life, like the tail wagging the dog. Instead, discipline yourself
to use e-mail as a business tool. Make your responses quick
and to the point. Check your e-mail only twice a day, or less
frequently. Even better, leave your e-mail off on the week-
ends and spend more time with your family and friends or
engaged in personal activities.

The good news is that you will probably never miss an
important message. There are very few things that happen
that cannot wait another day or two, especially in business.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

SEVENTEEN

Manage the Telephone

THE TELEPHONE CAN be an excellent servant or a terrible
master—especially if you feel compelled to answer whenever
it rings. To achieve maximum productivity, you must put the
telephone in its place so that you do not end up a slave to
anyone who dials your number.

The best way to get control of your telephone calls is to
have all of them screened by your administrative assistant;
otherwise, put your phone on silent and let calls go to your
voice mail. There are few calls or messages that cannot wait
until it is more convenient for you to turn your attention to
dealing with them.

One of the reasons that we are becoming slaves to the
attraction of distraction is curiosity. We can’t stop ourselves
from wondering who is sending us a message, or who is on

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
82 TIME MANAGEMENT

the other end of the phone. The only way to resist this temp-
tation to be distracted is for you to turn off the phone com-
pletely so that you don't even hear it ring.

Whenever you are meeting with staff and subordinates,
or with your boss or with clients, have your calls held. Turn
off your cell phone. Allow no interruptions whatsoever.
There is seldom anything so important that it will not wait.

Ten minutes of uninterrupted time in conversation with
another individual will be more productive than thirty or
forty minutes with the phone ringing and being answered
throughout your conversation. Later, you can call people
back, one after another.

Bunch Your Calls

If you have to make a series of phone calls in the course of
the day, make them all at the same time. Carve out a chunk
of time where you can turn off every other distraction and
only make phone calls to the important people on your list.
Write down the name, number, and subject of each person
that you need to call.

Schedule phone calls as religiously as you would sched-
ule a meeting with your boss. If it is an important call, write
out your agenda for the call so that you are working from a
list when you are talking to the other person. There are few
things as exasperating as getting off an important phone call
with a difficult-to-reach person and discovering that you
have forgotten to cover an important point because you
didn’t write it down.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
MANAGE THE TELEPHONE 8&3

Be Polite and Professional

When you call another person, always ask, “Is this a good time
to talk?” Top executives use this polite and professional phrase
to open up a phone call, even prearranged, scheduled phone
calls. If an emergency has arisen in the interim, it may not be
a good time to talk, after all. If you try to forge ahead with your
conversation at that point, the other person will be unable to
pay close attention. So always ask, “Is this a good time?”

If the other person says it is not a good time, offer to call
back later or ask the person to suggest a time that would be
more convenient. This is a simple way to show courtesy and
respect, and it will be appreciated. Never assume that the
other person has the time to talk to you at this moment, no
matter what you have arranged earlier.

Avoid Telephone Tag
Do everything possible to avoid playing telephone tag. Set
up telephone appointments exactly as you would set up a
face-to-face meeting in the office. When you call people,
leave a specific time and number at which you would be
available. When people call you, and you can't always speak
with them, have your secretary get a call-back time that is
convenient for the caller. It should be during hours when
you will be in your office or available by telephone so that
you can return calls on time.

Use the telephone as a business tool. Get on and off the
phone quickly. Get straight to the point. Be polite and
friendly, but businesslike and result-oriented.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
84 TIME MANAGEMENT

The more precise and prepared you can be about the
time and content of your telephone conversation, the more
you will get done, faster, and the more productive you will be
in every call.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

EIGHTEEN

Conduct Effective
Meetings

FULLY 25 PERCENT to 50 percent of management time is
spent in meetings of all kinds. These may be one-on-one
meetings, brief meetings in the hallway or while going in
and out of the office, or more formal sit-down meetings in
an office or a meeting room. Unfortunately, 50 percent or
more of meeting time is wasted. Meetings consume enor-
mous amounts of time and produce little lasting value.
However, meetings are also a key management tool and
must be used effectively.

Calculate the Meeting Cost

Make sure that you have a good reason for calling or
attending any meeting. Look upon each meeting as a busi-
ness investment. Look upon a meeting as carrying a cost in

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
86 TIME MANAGEMENT

managerial and staff time and wages. Take the combined
hourly pay of the people in those meetings and realize that
you need to get a return on your investment of this amount
of money.

Ifyou have ten people in aroom who earn an average of $50
per hour, then it is going to cost $500 out of the bank account
of the company for a one-hour meeting. If someone wanted to
spend $500 on a project and came to you for approval, you
would want to know what the company would get from this
expense. You would probably want to think about it for a while
before you approved it. You might even demand more infor-
mation and details before you are comfortable authorizing an
expenditure of this size. Treat each meeting the same way.

Avoid unnecessary meetings. Always ask if this meeting
has to be held at all. Whenever a meeting is unnecessary, it
is necessary not to have the meeting. If you personally don't
need to attend the meeting, then don’t attend. If you are
organizing the meeting, ask yourself who is essential to the
meeting, and invite only those people. Refrain from inviting
people who don't need to be there just to make them feel
good or important.

Prepare an Agenda

Prepare an agenda for every meeting, and always follow a
written agenda. Prioritize the items on the agenda and deal
with the most important ones first, in case you run out of
time. As the meeting leader, your job is to keep the discussion
on track and push for closure on each item before moving on.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CONDUCT EFFECTIVE MEETINGS 87

Start and stop your meetings on time. If you have people
who are chronically late, you might consider locking the
door shortly after your start time. Another strategy is to
assume that the latecomer is not coming at all and just
begin the meeting. Once the meeting begins, ensure that
there will be no interruptions while you are in the meeting.

In his bestselling book What Got You Here Won’t Get You
There, Marshall Goldsmith says that one of the biggest flaws
in leadership is the tendency to dominate meetings that are
attended by the leader’s subordinates. Because you are the
boss, everyone listens when you speak. Over time, people
learn not to say anything or to interrupt, but just to let you
continue speaking as long as you want, on any subject that
you want.

Ask More Questions

In a meeting, be like the wise old owl that has two ears and
one mouth. Use your ears and your mouth in exactly that
proportion. Ask more questions and listen more closely than
you talk or contribute to the agenda. Use a meeting to elicit
the very best thinking of each person in the room, which is
not possible if you are talking all the time.

The best and most efficient meetings are stand-up meet-
ings. You can hold this type of meeting, perhaps in your
office, only no one sits down and whatever needs to be dis-
cussed is discussed quickly and succinctly so that everyone
can get back to work.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
8B TIME MANAGEMENT

It’s simple to convene such a meeting. You say, “In the
interest of time—because I know how busy everyone is—
let’s hold a stand-up meeting. That way we can cover every-
thing and get back to work faster.” Since people usually
are busy, you will find that, given the right time and place,
this type of meeting is very much appreciated by your
staff members.

As Peter Drucker once wrote, “Anything more than 25
percent of managerial time spent in meetings is a sign of
malorganization.”

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
NINETEEN

 

Read Faster,
Remember More

THE AVERAGE businessperson today is reading thousands
of words of e-mails, reports, news stories, business informa-
tion, magazine articles, and other data. To be successful
today, you have to keep current with your reading require-
ments. We live in a knowledge-based society, and one key
piece of information can have an immediate effect on your
work and your decision making.

Take some time to be selective about what you read.
The best time saver in the world of reading and keeping
current is the Delete button on your keyboard. Use it early
and use it often. Resist the temptation to spend time read-
ing things that are not of immediate value or relevance to
your life and work.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
90 TIME MANAGEMENT

Learn to Speed-Read

You cannot avoid all of the incoming information, but you
can sort it and go through it at a time and place that makes
sense to you. One of the most important skills you can
develop is to learn to speed-read. If you have never taken a
course in speed-reading, you should do it now. This one
course will allow you to triple your reading speed and level
of retention, probably in the first two lessons. The technolo-
gies that have developed in speed-reading are quite phe-
nomenal, and anyone can learn how to read 500 to 1,000
words per minute with high levels of comprehension.

Bunch Your Reading
When you come across valuable items, summaries, or pieces
of information on the Internet, print them out and put them
into a file, or put them aside in a separate digital file on your
computer for reading later. Instead of “task-shifting’— that
is, switching away from the work that you are doing to read
arecent piece of information—put it aside to read at a later
time. Once you get into the habit of doing this, you will be
amazed at how much more you read, and how much more
attention you can give when you do read that material.
With regard to newspapers especially, you can either have
the most important information published in newspapers
come to your computer on a daily basis, or you can read the
paper version. In either case, skim quickly and read only
what is relevant to you. In news reporting, the most impor-
tant information is usually in the headline and the first para-

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
READ FASTER, REMEMBER MORE 91

graph. Very often, you do not need to read all the details in
the story to understand exactly what has happened.

Read Selectively

Magazines are designed and crafted in a way to get you to
read through the magazine page by page. This is so that you
will get the maximum exposure to the advertisements in the
magazines. (It’s the same with newspapers.)

For this reason, you must read magazines, journals,
newspapers, and newsletters selectively, reading only what
is relevant and important to you. Review the table of con-
tents and go straight to the articles of interest to your life and
work. A great technique for printed materials is called “rip
and read.” Rip out the articles that you want to read, put
them in a file, and carry the file with you to be referred to
later, when you have “downtime.”

Review books carefully before deciding which ones you
want to spend time reading. You can subscribe to book
review services, both in print and online, and get the very
best ideas from any book in just a few minutes.

Just Say No

The best way to save time in your reading endeavors is to
make a decision not to read something at all. By carefully
screening the material's foreword, table of contents, the
introduction and information about the author, or the
index, you may find that the book or journal is not of impor-
tance to you. In that case, discontinue reading or discard it

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
92 TIME MANAGEMENT

completely so that you can free up more time to do things
of greater importance.

Develop a System

Over the years, I have developed the rhythm and habit of
reading three or more hours each day on subjects related to
business, economics, politics, and personal development.
That amounts to more than 150,000 hours of reading over
the course of my career. With the information that I accu-
mulated, I have been able to write more than sixty books,
including this one.

When people ask me how it is that I can read so much,
my explanation is simple. I organize my reading and work
away at it a little bit at a time, minute by minute, hour by
hour, flight by flight, and whenever I have a period of free
time, such as in an airport lounge waiting for a plane.

Remember, “readers are leaders.” It is not possible for
you to keep current with your field and be on top of your
industry unless you are feeding your mind, continually but
selectively, with the information that is being generated
today by some of the smartest people who ever lived.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
TWENTY

 

Invest in Personal
Development

THE MOST IMPORTANT thing you do to increase your
value, improve your results, and make yourself more impor-
tant to your business is to become better and better at the
most important things you do.

Self-development must be an ongoing and continuous
part of your time usage every day. It is a key time manage-
ment function that can put you on the path to the executive
suite and beyond.

Find the time within your schedule to continue growing
and developing. The basic rule with regard to personal
development is that you can go no further than you have
gone today with your current knowledge and skill. To go fur-
ther and advance your career, you have to gain more knowl-
edge. You have to learn more to earn more.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
94 TIME MANAGEMENT

Continuous and Never-Ending Improvement

Work on developing and improving yourself every day. If you
were to read something for one hour a day that improved
your ability to do your work, that would put you in the top
one percent in our society within five years.

Listen to educational audio programs when you are trav-
eling in your car. Today, virtually all of the finest information
and ideas that have ever been assembled in English, or in
any language, are available as audio recordings on CDs or
downloads to a smartphone or tablet.

The average commuter spends 500 to 1,000 hours per
year in the car. That’s twelve or twenty forty-hour weeks,
which is equivalent to one or two university semesters. This
means that you can get the benefit of almost full-time uni-
versity attendance by simply turning traveling time into
learning time. If you are not listening to audio programs in
your car or when traveling, you are missing out on one of the
great learning opportunities that exist today.

Attend Seminars Taught by Experts

Attend seminars and workshops given by experts in your
field at least four times a year. Be aggressive about seeking
out these seminars. Be prepared to travel large distances to
learn from the very best people in your business.

The key is for you to attend seminars taught by people
with practical experience who have already achieved success
in their field. Try to avoid lectures and seminars from uni-
versity professors who write from their ivory towers. They

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
INVEST IN PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT 95

have seldom been in the trenches, and what they teach
tends to be academically correct but practically useless.
There is almost no way that you can apply their ideas to get
better results in your work.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
TWENTY-ONE

 

Organize Your
Work Space

ONE OF THE GREAT time management tools is to work
from a clean desk and in an organized work space. Just as an
excellent chef cleans up the kitchen before and after cooking,
you should organize your work space completely before you
begin your work. One of the most successful entrepreneurs
in recent history said that the key to his success was to
“always work from a clean desk.”

Peter Drucker observed that effective executives always
have a clean desk. Everything except the one thing that
they are working on at the moment has been removed and
put away, which is why they are able to focus with greater
clarity and get more done, of higher quality, in a shorter
period of time.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
ORGANIZE YOUR WORK SPACE 97

Put all of your documents away in the appropriate files,
both physical and online. Deal only with your current task.
Try to have only one item in front of you whenever possible.

The top professionals in every field keep a tidy and
highly ordered work space at all times. Think of a carpenter,
dentist, or doctor. They clean up and reorganize as they go
through their day.

Get organized and stay organized. Make sure your office
supplies and materials are fully stocked and available at hand.
You will find that nothing is more destructive to efficiency and
effectiveness than having to start a job and then stop, and
then start again, for lack of proper preparation or supplies.

Organization Increases Productivity

Many people believe that they work more effectively in a
messy work environment with a cluttered desk. Yet every
study that has been done with people shows that when they
are forced to clean up their work environment so that they
have only one task in front of them, their productivity dou-
bles and triples, usually overnight.

People who work with cluttered desks are found to spend
an enormous amount of each working day looking for the
materials they need among the clutter around them.
Psychologically, the sight of a cluttered desk or office pro-
vides subconscious feedback that reinforces your perception
that you are disorganized. It leads to continuous distraction
as your eyes and your attention dart from item to item, and
back again.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
Conclusion

THE FINAL POINT about time management is the concept
of balance. The most important thing that you can instill in
your life is balance and moderation. By practicing the meth-
ods, ideas, and techniques in this book, you will become a
master time manager, and have more time for your family
and your personal life.

Often, people take time management programs so that
they can increase the number of things that they can do on
a day-to-day basis. However, as the wise man said, “There is
more to life than simply increasing its speed.”

The main purpose of learning and practicing time man-
agement skills is to enhance and improve the overall quality
of your life. It is to increase the amount of pleasure and hap-
piness you experience.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
CONCLUSION 99

Your Quality of Life

No matter how appropriate your job is for you, the quality of
your life is going to be largely determined by three things.
The first is the quality of your inner life: how well you get
along with yourself, how much you like yourself, and how
good you feel about your character and personality. Inner
development takes time and reflection, plus reading and
thinking about the great questions of life.

The second area is your health. No amount of success
will compensate for ill health. Take time to eat the right
foods, exercise regularly, and get proper rest and recreation.
Sometimes, the best use of your time is to go to bed early
and get a good night’s sleep.

Finally, and most important of all, take time for your
relationships. The people you care about and who care
about you are the most critical factors in your life. Never
allow yourself to get so caught up in your work that you
ignore the primacy of those key relationships with your
spouse, children, and close friends.

A great life is one that is in balance. If you spend
sufficient time preserving and enhancing the quality of your
relationships, you will find that you get more joy, satisfaction,
and fulfillment out of your work, you'll find success.

A wise old doctor once observed, “I never spoke to a
businessman on his deathbed who said that he wished he
had spent more time in the office.”

Thank you, and good luck in using these ideas in every
part of your life.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
American Management Association / www.amanet.org
ABCDE method of lists, 35-36
action, vs. reaction, 5
activities, of greatest value, 55
administrative tasks, vs. creative
tasks, 71-74

advertisements in magazines, 91
agenda

for meeting, 86-87

for phone call, 82
Akerson, Dan, 33
alternatives, 18-19
anxiety, 11

Jack of control and, 1
assumptions, 18
attraction of distraction, 66

balance, 98, 99
Banfield, Edward, 21
batching tasks, 78-80

reading, 90-91
beginning of day, task choices, 42
behaviors, visualizing change, 8-9
beliefs about yourself, 6
Bierce, Ambrose, The Devil's

Dictionary, 16

Billings, Josh, 28
blocks of time, 71-74
books, decision to read, 91-92
boss, key result areas of, 58
burnout, avoiding, 11-12

INDEX

change in behavior, visualizing, 8-9
charting projects, 29-33
checklists, 29
clarity, 27, 57-58

in goals, 30

on key result areas, 53

in outcomes, 17
cluttered desk, vs. clear, 96-97
comfort zone, 37, 41
commuting, audio programs

during, 94
concentration, 62-66
consequences of tasks, 35
conversation, with coworkers, 75
correspondence, batching tasks, 78
Covey, Stephen, 17
creative tasks, vs. administrative
tasks, 71-74

curiosity, 81
cushion, in time planning, 63

daily “to-do” list, 34-39

deadline, for goal, 32

decision making, 7, 22-23
decisiveness, 2

delegating work, 37, 59-61
deleting tasks, from to-do list, 37
delusion, quadrant of, 51
depression, lack of control and, 1
desire, 2

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
102 INDEX

desk, clear vs. cluttered, 96-97
determination, 2
The Devil's Dictionary (Bierce), 16
discipline, 2
distraction, attraction of, 66
Do Not Disturb strategy, 73
Drucker, Peter, 18, 41, 88, 96

The Effective Executive, 77

earning ability, 47-48
educational audio programs, 94
The Effective Executive (Drucker), 77
effectiveness, 55
4 Ds of, 2-3
quadrant of, 50
80/20 rule, 41
eliminating tasks, from to-do list, 37
e-mail, 79-80
as distraction, 66
emotions, 8
enthusiasm, 55
external locus of control, 5

fanaticism, 16

fast thinking, 15, 46

Ferris, Tim, The 4-Hour Workweek, 79
flaws, in plans, 26

focus, 47-52

Ford, Henry, 26, 69

The 4-Hour Workweek (Ferris), 79
frustration, 11

General Motors, 32-33
goals, 17, 20
clarity in, 30
considering, 14
listing tasks to achieve, 26
planning for achieving, 27-28
setting, 32-33
Goethe, Johann Wolfgang von, 26
Goldsmith, Marshall, What Got You
Here Won't Get You There, 87

habits, 36-37
developing good, 51-52
health, 99
help from others, 28
high-performing people
procrastination by, 67-68
research on attitudes and
behaviors, 21-22
Hill, Napoleon, 14

immediacy, quadrant of, 49
important tasks, vs. urgent, 49-51
inner dialogue, 8
inner life, 99
internal locus of control, 5
interruptions, 73
avoiding by phone, 82
controlling, 75-77
introspection, 21

Kahneman, Daniel, Thinking Fast
and Slow, 15-16
key result areas (KRA), 53-58
definition, 54
key result areas, definition, 56-57
knowledge, need for, 27

latecomer to meeting, options for, 87

Law of Control, 5

Law of Three, 43-45

learning, 93

learning curve, 78

life, meaning and purpose, 11

lists, ABCDE method of, 35-36

long-term perspective, 21-22

low producer, procrastination by,
67-68

lunchtime, 73

magazines, reading efficiently, 91
manager, key result areas, 56-57
meaning of life, 11

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
meetings, 85-88
agenda for, 86-87
calculating cost, 85-86
questions in, 87-88
stand-up, 87-88
mental programming, 68
methodology, 18
mind, programming, 7-8
mission, 15-19
moderation, 98
momentum, 64
Morgenstern, Julie, Never Check
E-Mail in the Morning, 79
morning, scheduling work for, 72
multitasking, 29
avoiding, 64-65
Murphy’s Law, 32

Never Check E-Mail in the Morning
(Morgenstern), 79

newspapers, reading efficiently,
90-91

Nightingale, Earl, 63

no, as response, 38

not-to-do list, 38-39

office
early arrival, 74
organizing work space, 96-97
standing up when some one
enters, 77
outcomes, clarity in, 17

Pareto, Vilfredo, 41

Pareto principle, 41

personal development, 93-95

personal productivity, values and, 10

perspective, long-term, 21-22

persuasion, 55

PERT (Program Evaluation Review
Techniques), 30-32

plans

INDEX 103

for goal achievement, 27-28
written, 25-28
practical experience, vs. university
seminars, 94-95
priorities, 40-46, 63
activities alignment with, 12
of tasks, 26
procrastination, 67-70
productivity
delegating work and, 60
organization and, 97
progress, 20
projects, charting, 29-33
psychology of time management, 4-9
purpose of life, 11

quadrant of delusion, 51
quadrant of effectiveness, 50
quadrant of immediacy, 49
quadrant of waste, 51

quality of life, 99

questions, in meetings, 87-88

reaction, vs. action, 5
reading, 89-92
bunching, 90-91
magazines, 91
newspapers, 90-91
system for, 92
Reagan, Nancy, 38
realities, beliefs becoming, 6-7
relationships, 99
removing tasks, from to-do list, 37
responsibility for goal, 32
review, 20
rip and read technique, 91
Robert Half International, 36

salami slice method, 69-70
salesperson, key result areas, 56
scheduling phone calls, 82
self-analysis, 12-14

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
104 INDEX

self-concept, 6
self-development, 93-95
self-efficiency, 4
self-esteem, 4
self-talk, 8, 68
seminars, 94-95
sequence, organizing tasks by, 26
70 percent rule, 59-61
single-handling, 62-66
skills

for delegating, 60-61

need for, 27
sleep, 35, 99
slow thinking, 15, 19, 20
speed-reading, 90
stand-up meetings, 87-88
staying on track, 47-52
stress, 11

Jack of control and, 1

tasks
administrative vs. creative,
71-74
batching, 78-80
for beginning of day, 42
breaking into small tasks, 69
determining “big three,” 44-45
eliminating from to-do list, 37
important vs. urgent, 49-51
listing to achieve goals, 26
task-shifting, 64-65
telephone
avoiding tag, 83-84
batching calls, 78, 82
being polite and professional,
83
as distraction, 66
managing, 81-84
minimizing interruptions from,
76-77
tension, 11

thinking
before acting, 16-17
importance of, 20
types of, 15

Thinking Fast and Slow

(Kahneman), 15-16

time
most valuable use of, 48-49
of phone calls, 83
wasting, 36-37

time blocks, 71-74

time management
importance of, 1
payoff for, 3
psychology of, 4-9

to-do list
daily, 34-39
eliminating tasks, 37

university seminars, vs. practical
experience, 94-95

urgency, developing sense of, 70

urgent tasks, vs. important, 49-51

USA Today, 65

values, 10-14
personal productivity and, 10
vision, 15-19
short-term decision-making and,
23
visualization, 8-9
voice mail, 81

waste, quadrant of, 51
What Got You Here Won't Get You
There (Goldsmith), 87

work

delegating, 37

developing good habits, 51-52
work space organization, 96-97
written plans, 25-28

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
ABOUT THE AUTHOR

Brian Tracy is a professional speaker, trainer, seminar leader,
and consultant, and chairman of Brian Tracy International,
a training and consulting company based in Solana Beach,
California.

Brian bootstrapped his way to success. In 1981, in talks
and seminars around the U.S., he began teaching the princi-
ples he forged in sales and business. Today, his books and
audio and video programs—more than 500 of them—are
available in 38 languages and are used in 55 countries.

He is the bestselling author of more than fifty books,
including Full Engagement and Reinvention.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

“Inspiring, entertaining, informative, motivational. . .”
Brian Tracy is one of the world’s top speakers. He addresses
more than 250,000 people annually—in over 100 appear-
ances—and has consulted and trained at more than 1,000
corporations. In his career he has reached over five million
people in 58 countries. He has lived and practiced every
principle in his writing and speeches:

21st-Century Thinking: How to outmaneuver the
competition and get superior results in an ever-turbu-
lent business climate.

Leadership in the New Millennium: Learn the most
powerful leadership principles—ever—to get maxi-
mum results, faster.

Advanced Selling Strategies: How to use modern sales’
most advanced strategies and tactics to outperform your
competitors.

The Psychology of Success: Think and act like the top
performers. Learn practical, proven techniques for
excellence.

To book Brian to speak at your next meeting or conference,
visit Brian Tracy International at www.briantracy.com, or
call (858) 436-7316 for a free promotional package. Brian will
carefully customize his talk to your specific needs.

 

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
Free Sample Excerpt from Success Under Stress,
by Sharon Melnick
For additional insights on how to optimize productivity
when the pressure is on, be sure to read Sharon Melnick’s
Success Under Stress (ISBN 978-08144-32129; $17.95 (retail);
also available as an e-book]. It gives you a host of powerful
tools for when you're dealing with too many projects, flag-
ging confidence, difficult colleagues, and all the other dis-
tractions that generate stress.

Here's a free sample from the book...
108 FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS

SECTION |

Constant Stress:

Reclaiming the Power to Succeed

hink you're the only one stressing out? If so, “listen in” on two of
my phone conversations and see if you relate to others who are also
feeling the heat.

“I've never admitted this to anyone before,’ Stacy told me. “| can't
do it anymore. In fact, sometimes | don't even want to.”

Stacy is a mid-career working mother who heads up an internal
client service team. When she called me for a consultation, she ex
plained, “There's enormous pressure to get a mounting pile of projects
done without a mistake. | know | expect too much of myself, but I’m
nervous about lowering my standards. My assistant keeps making mis-
takes, and I'm worried she'll make a major one that affects our clients. |
don't sleep well. | wake up in the middle of the night. Then | have a short
fuse. I've snapped at my kids more than a few times lately, and | always
feel guilty about it”

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS 109

| could hear the desperation in Stacy’s voice. She had trouble priori-
tizing because of her frenetic pace and the daily changing priorities. She
was operating “in the weeds,” trying to do it all herself. A perfectionist,
she felt personally responsible for getting everything right. Though ex
hausted, she kept pushing herself.

We cleaned up Stacy's challenges in a matter of weeks! First, | gave
her a technique to get back to sleep within three minutes so she could
wake up rested. Next, we prioritized the 61 projects on her plate. As she
learned to question herself less and get more done, she felt she had ac-
complished enough at the end of each day to go home. She learned the
tools to push herself when needed and to relax and be present with her
family when desired. As a result, her life becarne more balanced. After
she learned communication techniques to minimize her assistant’s mis-
takes, Stacy's relief was visible. As these skills gave her more of a sense
of control, we were able to deal with that self-critical “voice” and go over
how to stop overreacting with her kids. At home, her guilt began to melt
away and, at work, she grew into her potential as a leader. Four months
later, Stacy was promoted.

Dan, who owns a financial planning business, told me, “| have tre-
mendous financial goals, and I'm not reaching them. |’m fed up chasing
the minnows—| want to land the whale clients like the other guys do. |
feel | need to work all the time. | can’t miss out on opportunities to get
clients, so | don’t have the quality of life | work so hard for. Every morning
| come to the office with a plan, but then | get interrupted and my plan
goes down the drain. On top of it all, my former business partner is being
a pain in the neck.”

Because Dan lost sight of the big picture, he wasn't getting the most
important things done. He'd go home frustrated and come in the next
day only to spin his wheels again. A lack of confidence held him back
from going for the whale clients. He was frustrated, anxious, and finan-
cially stressed.

Dan was ready to break through to the next level of success. We
sculpted his business around his considerable talent and identified his

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
110 FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS

unique value to those whale clients. He became clear about where he
was headed and what daily critical actions would get him there. As he de-
veloped a system for powering down the piles of paperwork, his stress
began to subside, and he was able to think straight again. That's when
we taught him strategies to put him on the fast track to that “quiet confi-
dence” he wanted when entering a room. Within a month, he was meet-
ing with the whales. And within three months, he landed the biggest
deal of his professional career. He ended his business partnership on
amicable terms, spent more time with his new wife and—at long last—
enjoyed the quality of life for which he’d work so hard!

Are you feeling like Stacy or Dan—pushing hard every day just to
stay caught up, but not getting ahead? Are you working hard but not
achieving the financial reward or the quality of life you want? Or are you
making progress, but at great cost to you and your family?

If so, you can learn a better way, quickly. Channeling stress properly
turns coal into diamonds. In later chapters, you'll learn about all the tools
(and more) Stacy used to get promoted and Dan used to land a whale
client. If you've been handling things well in the New Normal, you'll now
be able to do so with less wear and tear. If you've been struggling, you'll
pick up a toolkit to put you in control. Like Stacy and Dan, as you apply
the skills, you will have greater career satisfaction, improved work-life
balance, and better financial security. You'll live life more on your own
terms, not just react to it.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS 111

From Survival Under Stress

to Success Under Stress

magine a person who responds to daily challenges and minor
emergencies by thinking only of short-term solutions instead of look-
ing at what's best for the future. Unable to see new approaches or new
opportunities, he looks only to the past for solutions. He focuses on
the problem, not the whole picture. He overreacts; he stresses over
how a situation could possibly go wrong, keeping himself anxious
and on guard.

If you had such an employee, you wouldr’t look to him or her
for innovations, would you? And in fact, that employee might not
last long with you. Yet, what I just described is a typical stress-system
response, left unchecked. Without knowing it, our response to daily
stressful events may keep us stuck handling challenges the same way,
day after day, thereby preventing us from reaching our next level of
success. Clearly, if we don’t do something proactively to achieve Suc-
cess Under Stress, we might never have it.

Of course, we want better control over how we respond—we
want to respond thoughtfully, not reactively. And, in a manner that’s
future oriented. We want to build value for a long-term benefit—not

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
112 FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS

just for ourselves, but for everyone we work with as well. We want
to respond with the best available option to solve problems, main-
tain good relationships and conserve energy. That's a Success Under
Stress response! One client described his transformation from a typi-
cal stress response to one he could control as, “It’s like I was driving a
clunky car that doesr’t turn well, and now I've stepped into a Porsche;
my performance is just superior.”

Let’s get even more specific about the experience you could have
when you are more in control of your response to challenging events
throughout the day. We'll begin with an example. Here is the “Before”
scenario:

Its 4 pm and you are at your desk. It’s been a busy day, but the end
is in sight. You and your spouse are due to meet at your 11-year-old
daughter's end-of-the-year school play in two hours. Your boss calls
you into her inner sanctum. Crisis. The president of your division is
considering a strategic change, which would pull key resources away
from your group. Your boss needs you to put together a 10-minute
slide presentation on your big project for a meeting with the presi-
dent and senior management tomorrow morning at 9 Am. You're not
exactly sure what she wants, but you begin to feel overwhelmed, so
you decide to leave her office and get started immediately.

On the way back to your desk, your thoughts are scattered: If
the number of people on your team were reduced, would you be in-
cluded? You tell yourself, “Don’t go there!” But you sense a hint of
panic setting in. You can feel your heart thumping. You imagine what
tomorrow's meeting will be like. Why does the president want to hear
from you? What if you make a mistake or say something that the
president thinks is mundane? You get a pit in your stomach. You re-
call that your boss met with the president a week ago, so you wonder
why she’s only telling you about this now. You feel resentful, causing
your jaw to clench and your neck muscles to tighten.

You feel pressured to get the presentation done now because if
you miss your daughter's play you will be inducted into the Bad Par-

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS 113

ent Hall of Fame. Instinctively, you know you'll get it done somehow,
but you expect it will be stressful. Worse yet, you don't know if youll
be proud of what you produce. You feel completely trapped!

You sit down at your desk and try to brainstorm, but you experi-
ence tunnel vision. You keep having the same ideas over and over; it’s
hard to focus. You're racking your brain trying to remember where
you filed that presentation your colleague did at the kick-off meeting
so you can reference it. But you're running out of time. So you tell
yourself to go with the first idea you had, which is to describe the
project and its milestones.

Just as you begin to build a little momentum, someone who works
for you pops in to hand you a report. You give it a glance and notice
the numbers in the last column are off. That means youre going to
have to take some time to re-explain it to him. You think about your
packed schedule. When will you even have time to review it again?
You feel crunched. Your voice has a tone of exasperation as you give
him feedback.

You finish a draft, and then rush to your daughter's play, arriv-
ing with a minute to spare. It takes so long to settle in that you arent
really present until the second act. That night, you sleep restlessly,
worrying about the presentation. In the morning, you're nervous as
you enter the meeting, still unsure if you'll deliver exactly what your
boss wants. Your presentation goes without a hitch, but you get pep-
pered with a lot of tough questions about the go-forward strategy.
You feel intimidated, so you avoid speaking up, even when you have
something important to say. After the meeting you soldier on, but
feel rattled for the rest of the day. When you pass your boss in the
hallway you're anxious whether she'll say anything about it.

In this scenario, your response to stress is a series of interlocking
effects, each compounding the one before it. A physical reaction to
stress leads to panicked and scattered thoughts. It limits your abil-
ity to see the best solutions and interferes with your best judgment.
When you don't perform at your best, you chip away at your confi-

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
114 FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS

Survival Under Stress

Performance: (IE.

Decreased Stressful
Critical Thinking, Event
Efficiency
Exhausted/ Physiology:
Reactive/ Automatic
Signs of Stress
Stress System
Thoughts:
“vil push

more”

Copyright © 2012 | Horizon Point, Inc.

Figure 1.1

dence and put more pressure on yourself in subsequent situations.
As depicted in Figure 1.1, your thoughts, your physiology and your
responses to the problem form a vicious cycle that I call Survival Un-
der Stress.

The stressors that set Survival Under Stress in motion are infi-
nite: When priorities change. When someone gets competitive with
you. When your income is lower than expected. When you don’t get
feedback after your presentation and wonder if “no news is good
news.” It certainly is going on once your email inbox climbs up to an
impossible number. As Ned Hallowell describes it in his seminal ar-
ticle, “Overloaded Circuits”: “The sufferer doesn't experience a single
crisis but rather a . . . never-ending drip of situations perceived as
minor crises. Feeling trapped and wanting to live up to your own and
others’ expectations of you, you ‘suck it up and don’t complain as the
workload increases or the results dont appear. Your attitude is one of

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS 115

Til try harder’ You feel a constant low level of panic and guilt. Fac-
ing a tidal wave of tasks, the executive becomes increasingly hurried,
curt, peremptory and unfocused, while pretending that everything is
fine... . You've become so used to being in this state of frenzy that
you may not recognize that your coping mechanisms aren't work-
ing?” If you’ve had any moments recently where the onslaught of de-
mands became so great that you thought to yourself, “Stop the train,
I want to get off? now you know why.

Does this cycle remind you of how you respond to stressful situ-
ations? Judging from the number of times I've presented the idea of
the survival cycle to businesspeople and heard back, “It’s like you are
in my head,” it’s certainly the pattern that characterizes many of those
with whom you work and live.

Let’s return to your 4 pm scenario with the boss. This time you
will see the possibility you have to create Success Under Stress. Notice
that in this scenario, little time is wasted. The emotional churn barely
exists. And, the presentation you draft has more impact on your fu-
ture and your team’s.

In your boss’ office, you start by taking a deep breath so you can
actually listen closely to her request. You have the presence of mind
to ask a few questions to help clarify her needs. You think through a
few ways of drafting the presentation and ask your boss if she agrees
with you: “It might be better to give a brief overview of the project?
you say, “but then focus on the strategic value and bottom line rec-
ommendations to improve it going forward. Do you agree?” Yes, she
agrees. As you walk back to your office, this clarity enables you to
begin forming a mental outline of the presentation.

Back at your desk, you use a one-to-three minute mental reset
technique so you can be in the right frame of mind to think clearly
and creatively (Chapter 4). You forgive your boss for giving you the
assignment at the last minute, and you realize she asked you because
she has confidence in you (Chapter 9). You experience a few seconds
of nervousness at the thought of presenting in front of the company

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
116 FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS

president. But you know how to use the “Panic Reset” button, an acu-
pressure point that reduces anxiety within seconds (more on this in
Chapter 7).

In the brief time remaining, your concentration is steady. Each
slide you complete gives you a sense of satisfaction and momentum.
You put together a solid presentation—pleased to have a say in your
team’s future and confident that you'll do a good enough job in the
morning. When your assistant pops in to hand you the report, you
notice the mistakes. Instead of snapping, you think about the best
strategy to influence him to give you the right work. You refer to the
recent conversation in which he agreed to take responsibility for his
mistakes and fix them, so your conversation is more of a brief touch
base to get him on track (Chapter 11).

You arrive at your daughter’s play on time, and you beam with
pride throughout her performance. After you fall asleep that night, you
wake up once but know how to get back to sleep within three minutes
(Chapter 4). You arrive at work rested and take a few minutes to re-
view your slides. The presentation goes smoothly and, when there is
opportunity to add additional value to the discussion, you speak up
without a script (Chapter 6). The president is a woman of few words
but you don’t necessarily need her explicit praise—you could read her
body language and also know inside of you that your presentation was
well received. You are on a small high for the rest of the day.

In this scenario, you created a positive spiral—a virtuous cycle.
You handled it well from the beginning by preventing your stress re-
sponse from spiraling out of control. You had constructive and confi-
dent thoughts. You were motivated by the last- minute circumstances.
In fact, the heightened pressure brought out your best qualities. You
achieved a better result, all from small shifts you made in your physi-
ology, your perspective and your approach to the problem. This sce-
nario characterizes Success Under Stress (see Figure 1.2).

Many of us are locked into Survival Under Stress but don’t even
realize it! Lack of sleep, muscle tension, and impaired concentra-

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS 117

Success Under Stress

Performance: Sm
Challenging

Focus/Balance P
Stimulating

Event

New Ideas

Optimal
Stress
Response

Thoughts: a
"Lhave

control”

Energetic/
Poised

Copyright © 2012 | Horizon Point, Inc.

Figure 1.2

tion are often viewed as justifiable by-products of doing business in
today’s world. Some people see these as badges of honor for being
a road warrior and a multitasker. But we might not notice that our
decisions aren't based on listening intently or thinking through the
facts. We may rush into what is right for the moment—or not act at
all - instead of doing what's best for the long term.

And who can blame us? First, consider the sheer volume of de-
mands that require our attention. The average business professional
has between 30 and 100 projects on his or her plate—all at once’; is
interrupted on average seven times per hour’; and faces incoming
communication from multiple technologies 24 hours a day. You may
be paid to think, but it’s hard to find the time!

Second, this daily onslaught comes at you against a backdrop of
rapid local and global changes that force you to adjust your priorities
and innovate to capture the attention of your target market—whether
that’s your customers, donors, or manager. If you dont keep up the

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
118 FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS

pace, you might not be seen as a contender or you might let a critical
item fall through the cracks. You worry that if you don’t work all the
time you could lose an important client or wort earn enough money.
You run mental movies of what might happen if you lose your job or
don’t earn enough each month.

Third, for many of us, this overload is just the base of a stack of
other stresses that compound one another to magnify the effect. For
example, perhaps your high expectations of yourself (and others) cre-
ate an extra layer of pressure to do more. If you have any doubts about
yourself, you may worry about what other people think; you may feel
the need to invest extra effort in getting their approval. We constantly
judge ourselves on whether we are doing enough at work or at home.
And yet we know that in order to succeed, it’s more important than ever
to speak up and show confidence instead of staying in our comfort zone.

In the face of all this, you try to produce meaningful work, make
your mark, and be well paid for your services. No wonder stress has
become a national epidemic! (Over 80% of workers feel stress on the
job* and over 70% of healthcare provider visits are due to stress-re-
lated conditions.*) The pace feels unsustainable, and many of us are
already near a breaking point, with no relief in sight.

The New Normal is here to stay, but there’s good news: it can
work for you. What if you had the ability to complete projects and
handle people as smoothly as in the second 4 pm scenario? What if
you could be present at work, and present at home? What if you could
get off the Survival Under Stress cycle and onto Success Under Stress?
In Chapter 2 you'll learn how to do so—and quickly—by flipping the
control switch.

Are You on the Survival Under Stress Cycle?

If you want to take a temperature check to understand how much of
your life is defined by Survival Under Stress, then take a brief detour
and fill out the chart below. You'll feel a sense of accomplishment as
you begin to shift to Success Under Stress.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS 119

Rate yourself on each of the domains listed on the survey. The

higher you rate the item, the more you are displaying the signs of

Survival Under Stress. The lower you rate the item, the more you are

displaying the signs of Success Under Stress. What are your main
sources of stress? Do they have to do with Too Much Work? Self-
Confidence? Relationship Friction? After you complete the survey,

total your score and see for yourself how much the signs of stress are

influencing your effectiveness and happiness.

To what extent are you on the Survival Under Stress cycle? Find

out here:

1. Concentration and Focus

o o o o o o
1 2 3 4 5 6

Focus and concentrate well

2. Quality of Thinking
oO 9 9 9 oO 98
1 2 3 4 5 6

Thinking is sharp/See all options/
Think creatively/See opportunities
in obstacles/See the big picture

3. Productivity

o o o o o
1 2 3 4 5

xO

Productive/Organized/
Clear about role and
business strategy

o o oO 9
7 8 9 10

Racing thoughts/hard time
concentrating/a lot of info
coming in and head feels
like it will explode

o o oO 9
7 8 9 10

Mind is foggy/Forgetful,
short-term memory off/
Get tunnel vision/Get
locked into details and
overfocus on problem

o o oO 9
7 8 9 10

Could be more efficient/
Come to work with a plan
but end day in frustration
after having been distracted

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
120 FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS

4.

5.

6.

7.

Energy level

° ° ° °
1 2 3 4

Energetic throughout
the day and evening

Workload

° ° ° °
1 2 3 4

Workload is stimulating
and challenging

but manageable/
Proactively communicate
to manage expectations

Body Symptoms
oO 9 oO Oo
1 2 3 4

Relatively free of
Tension/Appetites
are healthy

On and Off Time
° ° ° °
1 2 3 4

Rest and renew
regularly/Availability

to others is my choice

°

°

°

°

oO O 9 9
7 8 9 10
Wired and/or Tired/Crash
in the afternoon or at end of

day/Go home and numb out
in front of TV

oO O 9 9
7 8 9 10

Workload is excessive, over-
whelming/Feel buried/Don't
feel in control of workload/
Wearing too many hats,
stretched thin

oO O 9 9
7 8 9 10

Muscle aches/Grind teeth/
Headaches/Desires are
reduced/Dark circles under
the eyes

oO O 9 9
7 8 9 10

Always “on” and checking
phone, text, email (feel
“addicted”/Worried I will
miss out or disappoint
expectations if not always
on)

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS 121

8. Sleeping
oO 9 oO oO Oo 9
1 2 3 4 5
Wake up rested

oO O99 989 9
7 8 9 10

Trouble falling asleep/Wake
up in middle of the night
or early morning and hard
to get back to sleep/Sleep
through the night but wake
up tired

nan

9. Health
oO 9 ° ° oO 9 9 90 90 9
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

Get sick a lot (flu, colds)/
Digestive issues/Difficult to

Relatively healthy/

Body absorbs nutrients
gain or lose weight/Salt or
sugar cravings

10. Work-Life Balance

Oo 09 89 09 9 9 9 909 90 9
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

Carved out a workable, Still struggle, not at peace/

satisfying work-life balance/
Have proactively sought
solutions /Have peace of
mind about choices for now

11. Fearlessness

° Qo 9 °
1 2 3 4

Fearless

°
5

Feel guilty about making
decisions/Feel guilty about
house not cleaned/Feel

trapped.

oO O99 989 9
7 8 9 10

Live in fear of what others
think/Anxious—obsess
about or rehash situations
that happened or might
happen/Focus on worst-case

scenarios

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
122 FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS

12. Self-Confidence

° Qo 9 ° °
1 2 3 4 5

Project Confidence/
Secure

13. Motivation

° Qo 9 ° °
1 2 3 4 5

Motivated and positive
outlook/Take action to
control stress

14. Reactivity

° Qo 9 ° °
1 2 3 4 5

Poised, think rationally/
Stay cool, calm,
collected/Thoughtful
before responding/Handle
interruptions with ease

15. Interpersonal Influence

oO 8 8 9 9
1 2 3 4 5
Ease in relationships/Know
how to move others to action/
Have gained cooperation of

difficult people

UNDER STRESS

oO O89 98 9

7 8 9 10
Doubt myself/Self-critical,
beat myself up/Perfectionist—
have standards too high to live
up to for myself (or others)/
Have to do everything, and do
it well

oO O99 989 9
7 8 9 10

Feel trapped in circumstances/
Hopeless/Reduced feeling of
joy/Withdraw from social in-
teractions/Disengaged at work

oO O99 989 9
7 8 9 10

Snap at people (professionally
and personally)/Feel angry,
irritable/Take things personally

oO O99 989 9
7 8 9 10
Frustrated/Dontt feel heard/
Come home at night talking

about a person who aggravates
me/Wish others would change

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS 123

16. Relationship Friction

Oo 809 89 9 9 9 9 0809 9 9
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10

Comfortable communicating Someone in my life who is dif-
in difficult relationships/ ficult to deal with and causes
Don't expect the person me a lot of stress/Come home
to change so am not at night talking about this
chronically frustrated/Have person who aggravates you (or
gained cooperation of bring the stress of the personal
difficult people relationship to work)/Feel

victimized/Keep hoping it will
change, but don’t act

17. Coping
oO 89 808 808 080 0 0 909 9 9
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Have a regular Use alcohol or drugs, take pills
practice of healthy to sleep/Stress-related eating/
coping mechanisms/ Don't cope well

Know how to manage
myself to stay in a
good state

On how many items did you rate yourself 5 or higher? That's how
much Survival Under Stress characterizes your life. It will be helpful if
you identify a few early warning signs so you can take swift measures to
prevent the response from getting worse and keeping you in the cycle.
What are the canaries in your coal mine? What signs foreshadow that
your stress could get out of hand? A typical early warning sign is the
first time we say to ourselves, “I don't have time to go to the gym this
week? Another is when we say something such as, “I'll just stay up later
to get it all done.” Or maybe it’s the negative tone we use when talking
with someone.

Write down the early warning signs of your stress. Then, you can
be on the lookout for ways to reverse the trend at an earlier stage in
the process.

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
124 FREE SAMPLE OF SUCCESS UNDER STRESS

My early warning signs that ’'m on the Survival Under Stress cycle:

 

 

 

 

 

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
Other Popular Titles by Brian Tracy:

Crunch Point

http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814473719
Personal success expert Brian Tracy gives readers a proven
action plan for getting the job done when the pressure is on.

ISBN: 978-08144-30132

Focal Point

http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814472781

The Wall Street Journal business bestseller with over 50,000
copies sold! “The true secret of high achievers is that they
know how to find their “focal point”’—the one thing they
should do, at any given moment, to get the best possible
results in each area of their lives. In Focal Point, Tracy brings
together the very best ideas on personal management into a
simple, easy-to-use plan.

ISBN: 9780-8144-26258

Full Engagement

http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=97808 14416891

How do you light a fire under every employee? Brian Tracy,
the Master of Motivation, shows how!

In these tough economic times, everyone is expected to
produce more with less. And yet, studies have shown that on
average, employees are working at only a fraction of their
potential. What are managers to do? How can they inspire
their people to perform at their absolute best?

ISBN: 978-08144-16907
How the Best Leaders Lead

http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 7808 1 4414347

Lead yourself—and your company—into the future with

these powerful, proven leadership strategies from Brian Tracy.
Winner of Soundview’s Harold Longman Award for Best

Business Book of 2010

ISBN: 978-08144-14354

Now, Build a Great Business
http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814416976
The seven most crucial components of business growth!

ISBN: 978-08144-16983

The Power of Charm

http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 78081 44 73573

The Power of Charm gives readers proven ways to become
more captivating—and persuasive—in any situation. With
his trademark directness, Tracy shows readers what charm
can do, and how they can use simple methods to immedi-
ately become more charming and dramatically improve
their social lives and business relationships.

ISBN: 978-08144-29716

Reinvention
http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 78081 4413463

This unique, life-altering book gives readers an interactive
series of exercises they can use to focus on what they really
want for themselves.

ISBN: 978-08144-13470

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
Speak to Win
http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814401576

As one of the world’s premier speakers and personal success
experts, Brian Tracy is the ideal instructor. In Speak to Win,
Tracy reveals time-tested tricks of the trade that readers can
use to present powerfully and speak persuasively, whether
in an informal meeting or in front of a large audience.

ISBN: 978-08144-01828

Time Power

http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 78081 4474709
Brian Tracy has devoted more than 25 years to studying the
most powerful time management practices used by the
most successful people in every arena. Now, in Time Power,
Brian reveals his comprehensive system designed to help
readers increase their productivity and income exponen-
tially—in just weeks!

ISBN: 978-08144-27859

TurboStrategy

http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814413289
Through 21 strategy points and dozens of examples, sto-
ries, and quotations from world-class thinkers and corpo-
rate leaders, Brian Tracy will show any company how to
turbocharge its strategy and get its business firing on all
cylinders.

ISBN: 978-08144-29303

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
Unlimited Sales Success
http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814433249
Based on more than 40 years of selling experience—in virtu-
ally all product categories and market conditions, Unlimited
Sales Success shows proven sales skills that are learnable—by

anyone.

ISBN: 978-08144-33256

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
The Brian Tracy Success Library!
Available now or coming soon in print & ebook format!

Motivation ISBN: 978-08144-33126
http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814433119

Delegation & Supervision ISBN: 978-08144-33157
http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814433 140

Negotiation ISBN: 978-08144-33195
http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814433 188

Leadership ISBN: 978-08144-33423
http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 780814433416

Time Management ISBN: 978-08144-33447
http:/hwww.amacombooks.org/book.cfm ?isbn=9 78081 4433430

For more information, please visit: www.amacombooks.org

To learn more about Brian Tracy visit his website:
http://www.briantracy.com/

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

About AMACOM

Who We Are: AMACOM is the book publishing division of
the American Management Association (www.amanet.org).
AMACOM'’s broad range of offerings spans not only the crit-
ical business topics and leadership challenges of today and
tomorrow, but also the issues that affect our lives, our work,
and our world.

What We Publish: AMACOM publishes non-fiction books on
business, management, leadership, HR, training, communi-
cations, career growth, personal development, marketing,
sales, customer service, project management and finance.

About Our Authors: AMACOM authors are experts in their
fields, unrivaled in their knowledge, experience, and reputa-
tion. They are world-class educators, successful executives,
business owners, trainers, consultants, and journalists—all
eager to share their insights and techniques with a broad
audience.

 

American Management Association / www.amanet.org
 

 

Your Goal is Success.
Ours is helping you get there.

American Management Association, a world leader in professional development, has
helped millions of people learn new skills, improve performance and work through challenges.
Our flexible training solutions fit every stage of your career and the demands of your schedule.

Need the skills to get ahead fast?

AMA offers 140+ seminars in more than 40 cities
nationwide. Tackle challenges directly related to
your job in these dynamic classroom courses led by
our expert faculty—with superior content, hands-on
training and peer interaction.

Can‘t get away from work for
training? Train right at your desktop.
AMA's Live Online Seminars offer instructor-led,
interactive courses with the high-quality content
and expert faculty you expect from AMA. No need
for travel or time away from the office.

Tight schedule? Choose where and
when you learn.

AMA OnDemand" js online training powered by
CrossKnowledge that gives you the freedom to build
new skills 24/7 as well as feedback and support
from a professional coach. You will be awarded an
AMA Certificate upon completion.

Facing a tough business challenge?
AMA Enterprise™ can help with both the diagnosis
and solution. This specialized division works with
corporations and government agencies to drive
talent transformation and organizational excellence.

Increase your knowledge even more with AMA Webinars, AMACOM business books and an extensive
range of FREE resources including webcasts, podcasts, eNewsletters, articles and White Papers.

ues usa tr }

  
 

American Management
Assoclation®

  

 

Pee cel mere

  

RCO]

American Management Association / www.amanet.org

 
